Then the U.S. would extract its ground forces from the region while relying on Gulf governments to craft a new security system that could be silently supported by Washington.Syrians don't love Saddam Hussein, but they aren't fond of the U.S., either.Mr. Bush and other officials were miffed that so little appreciation was expressed for U.S. efforts to eliminate the Iraqi military threat.This particularly enhances the position of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Saudi King Fahd, who gambled that they could defy Iraq and rely on the U.S. to stand with them -- and who now can claim that their gamble paid off handsomely.The problem is exacerbated by the growing likelihood, acknowledged privately by Bush administration aides, that Saddam Hussein will survive in power for at least a while longer.An administration official said the U.S. doesn't expect him to give in to all of Mr. Bush's demands of last night.Although Mr. Bush took pains to note that "no one country can claim this victory as its own," the triumph will clearly leave the U.S., along with its friends in Egypt and Saudi Arabia, as the dominant powers in the Middle East.Beyond that, officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a military alliance of Saudi Arabia and the five smaller Gulf Arab states, already have worked out plans for an Islamic peacekeeping force to guard Kuwait.The new U.S. bonds with Syria and Saudi Arabia create an opening to address the Arab-Israeli conflict on a more comprehensive plane in which the U.S. tries first to lead Arab states to make peace with Israel, then addresses the Palestinian issue in that broader process.Similarly, Jordan's open sympathy for Iraq has deeply strained relations with the U.S., creating another impediment to solving the Palestinian problem.Late last night it was reported that Iraq's U.N. mission had sent a letter to the U.N. accepting all the Security Council resolutions on the Gulf war.In private discussions with the U.S., Syria acknowledged that it faced serious internal unhappiness over sending Syrian forces along on the ground attack in Kuwait.So Bush administration officials have privately planned a series of steps to protect newly liberated Kuwait.Tehran will insist on being a part of any new Persian Gulf security system, and may use its influence within it to agitate for expelling any Western forces from the region.President Hafez Assad's power clearly is enhanced by the defeat of his archrival next door, Saddam Hussein, and his new chumminess with Washington.The president ordered a cease-fire -- but a temporary one, contingent on Iraq's freeing its captives, complying with United Nations resolutions and taking other steps to help defuse the region.That sentiment could vent itself through Islamic fundamentalism, a potential problem for Egypt and Saudi Arabia as well as for Syria.U.S. commanders yesterday conceded that Iraq went into the war with far more mobile Scud launchers than U.S. intelligence had estimated.