Inside the administration, aides say Mr. Sununu has grown more relaxed, more willing to delegate responsibility and surprisingly content to play the role of a detached broker in policy debates.Mr. Sununu, President Bush's chief of staff, is a combative, conservative Republican with a history of ambushing liberal Democrats like Sen.The other day, Mr. Sununu and two other advisers were sitting in front of Mr. Bush's desk waiting for the president.Mr. Sununu also rankled some Republican congressional leaders by dressing them down at a recent White House meeting for failing to properly support Mr. Bush's programs.And whatever his relations with others, Mr. Sununu's most important relationship -- the one with President Bush -- appears sturdy.His boss, President Bush, is enjoying high public approval, important legislation is moving ahead and Mr. Sununu's relationship with the president is strong.And Mr. Sununu is comfortable enough with Mr. Bush to pull an occasional practical joke.And although the White House chief of staff has toned down since that early encounter, in a recent meeting with GOP House members, Mr. Sununu suggested that Republicans attack a crime package proposed by Democratic Sen.Many political analysts here believe that Mr. Sununu has moderated his brash style, and that the former governor has adjusted to his White House role.One group Mr. Sununu has generally succeeded in pleasing is conservatives, who view him as their champion in a generally moderate White House.In the end Mr. Sununu committed the White House's support to the legislation while winning some concessions to minimize the effects on small business -- and a mutually acceptable bill now is whisking through Congress."I think this administration takes pains to work hard to make sure the whole is built up of a lot of pieces done in exactly the right way," Mr. Sununu says.Biden does say that when Mr. Sununu has "substantive differences" with someone, "the inclination is to respond with personal attacks -- which is bush league, no pun intended.Bush}," Mr. Sununu explained.Yet Mr. Sununu has just finished going head to head with the Massachusetts senator -- and succeeding in negotiating an agreement on landmark legislation giving sweeping new rights to disabled Americans.