Of course, Mr. Kelley -- not to be confused with the other John Kelley, who won the Boston Marathon in 1957 -- isn't the runner he was in 1935 when he won the race, in 2 hours, 32 minutes, 7 seconds."The winners get a medal and $55,000," says Mr. Kelley.Though still going strong, Mr. Kelley acknowledges the marathon gets tougher each year.Though he isn't the oldest person ever to enter the Boston Marathon, Mr. Kelley is the oldest to run it.Mr. Kelley aims to run till he is at least 100 years old.A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year -- as he has been for 15 years.Mr. Kelley well knows the jagged course from Hopkinton to downtown Boston: The first challenge comes five miles into the race, where a set of little hills can get a psyched runner to waste energy charging up the slopes.Mr. Kelley is in training for the Boston Marathon -- his 60th Boston Marathon.Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr. Kelley: "It's incomprehensible that a man his age is doing what he's doing.In those days, Mr. Kelley recalls, he ran in black leather high-jumping shoes that he cut open at the toes with a razor blade.Unlike many runners, Mr. Kelley doesn't bother with stretching exercises before he runs in the morning.The 82-year-old Mrs. Kelley adds, "I just try to stay in his shadow, but I have a hard time even doing that.""What that means," explains Kenneth Cooper, the physician who wrote "Aerobics" and several sequels and is now at work on a book on elderly athletes, "is that Johnny has the body of a man 23 years younger."Physiologically, whatever that means, I got all A's," Mr. Kelley reports of his checkup four months ago.In a rare moment of reflection, Mr. Kelley explains what makes him tick: "I paint because I like it.Even the thought of running a course of 26 miles and 385 yards leaves some of Mr. Kelley's rivals of yesteryear gasping."He's a strange man," says Laura Kelley, in awe of her husband's vigor.