Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein's support within the Iraqi military.The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly, leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait.U.S. commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the first hours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.President Bush's political argument for going to a ground war has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports of wanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait.Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S. ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin as previously planned Saturday night.But it has offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, not just the liberation of Kuwait.The Bush administration considers the sanctions essential to keeping Saddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.The allied rejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiative from an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms.That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or its armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power.The American hope is that someone from within Iraq, perhaps from the army's professional ranks, will step forward and push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can begin recovering from the disaster.The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S. officials now say, was that they all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq.But even continued military success carries political and diplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S."So far, the offensive is progressing with dramatic success," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commander of U.S. forces.If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plunged his country first into a fruitless eight-year-long war against Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S. and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving much of his country's military establishment and modern infrastructure in ruins.Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and an international arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraq pays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages.