Overall, Pentagon officials described Iraqi forces as confused, leaderless and battle-weary, adding that the few Guard units that have engaged in tank duels so far haven't been "any tougher" to defeat than the rest of Saddam Hussein's army.Pentagon officials said that early reports from the field indicated that U.S. forces captured or neutralized a Republican Guard mechanized division -- that is, one with mainly artillery and light armored vehicles.Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that he acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq.The more immediate problem for U.S. officials, though, is the final confrontation with Saddam Hussein's 90,000-man-strong Republican Guard.For starters, the U.S. hopes that the Iraqi people themselves will conclude that Saddam Hussein botched both his war with the U.S.-led coalition and his various attempts to stop it once it was underway.U.S. officials are preparing to live with a hostile Saddam Hussein for at least a while after the liberation of Kuwait.Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt.U.S. officials say they are well aware of the danger of making Saddam Hussein a martyr figure through U.S. overkill, and believe they can avoid that outcome.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime."And here, too, Saddam Hussein will fail."By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering him out of Kuwait, Saddam is "giving us every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power," said one Bush administration official.Despite weeks of fierce bombing, officials say, the Guard unitsespecially their tank divisions -- remain strong.After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said.While the tank battles began to the west, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime.The Pentagon is even refusing to rule out seizing or shooting down Saddam Hussein's plane if he tries to flee Iraq.