Proposals to limit the terms of members of Congress and of state legislators are popular and getting more so, according to the pundits and the polls. More likely, groups and interests that now have a hard time winning against incumbents are seeking term limitations to improve their chances of winning office. Proposition 131 would limit statewide elected officials to two consecutive four-year terms, state legislators to 12 consecutive years in office Proposition 140 would hold Assembly members to six years in office, state senators and statewide elected officials to eight. Term limits would give the people of California more control over the Legislature, and the Legislature would be less prone to special interests, because legislators would know they are going to be there for six years and they're out. They now think the voluntary service limitation of the past must be made mandatory. --- Curbing the Incumbents Do you think there should be a limit to the number of times a member of the House of Representatives can be elected to a two-year term, or not? Term limits would accomplish few of their proponents' goals -- more-independentminded and less-beholden lawmakers -- and would result in many unintended consequences-far more power accruing to unelected staff and special-interest lobbyists. Three U.S. House members, led by Democrat Larry Smith, have filed briefs asking the court to rule state term limits unconstitutional. The court said the state's strong interests in protecting against an entrenched, dynastic legislative bureaucracy outweighed objections that term limits restrict voter choice at the ballot box. But the court's decision affected only term limits on state officials federal officeholders weren't included in California's limits. They argued that voters were denied the right to be represented by the same legislator indefinitely, and that term limits discriminated against incumbents and denied them their right to equal protection of the laws. Should the court rule against term limits by the states, numerous other ballot access restrictions will likely be passed that have many of the same effects as term limits. One reason is that term limits would open up politics to many people now excluded from office by career incumbents. People who say term limits are a Republican plot to oust incumbents should know that a majority of open seats are won by Democrats, says Rep. But there are already signs that business lobbies, labor unions and other term limit opponents are relying more on convincing judges -- starting with Florida's heavily politicized state Supreme Court -- to overturn state term limits than on trying to convince voters to reject the idea. The voters would be better off if they could reach a binding agreement that precluded the re-election of incumbents, that is, if term limits were instituted. 