in reponse, patten showed his ignorance and arrogance, once again proving that the british government is bent on making the hong kong issue an international one before evacuating hong kong and changing hong kong into an independent or semi-independent political entity, to extend the influence of its colonial rule. <h5> sovereignty over hong kong cannot be evaded </h5> ostensibly, some people feel governor patten's remarks, quoted at the beginning of this article, were made in praise of hong kong and in defense of hong kong's international status and its importance. hong kong was ceded and leased by the corrupt qing government to the great british empire when the latter sent in overpowering warships and cannons in its invasion of china, so it was in fact stolen or forcibly occupied by britain. these sonorous and forceful remarks most vividly highlight and express the common desire of the chinese people, including hong kong compatriots. <h5> attempt to turn hong kong into international wrestling ring </h5> before the chinese people, who refuse to be bullied again, patten's attempt to evade and deny the fact that hong kong belongs to china by saying hong kong is an international asset is of no avail. how can patten be compared with the chinese government where the understanding of hong kong's international status and its importance are concerned. it is because the chinese government has a profound and accurate understanding of hong kong's past and present state, and its international status, that it was able to advance a series of principles and policies including one country, two systems, allowing hong kong people to administer hong kong and enjoy a high degree of autonomy, and so on to solve hong kong problems. by falsely alleging that the chinese side does not understand hong kong's international status, he obviously was trying to shift public attention, cheat the media, and lure the international community into meddling in hong kong affairs, thus finally attaining the goal of internationalizing the hong kong issue. <h3> the british side has attempted to prolong colonial rule for a long time </h3> internationalizing the hong kong issue is one of the british government's important plans to continue its colonial rule over hong kong after 1997 and is also one of its concentrated examples of going back on its word after signing the sino-british joint declaration. he also called on the international community to see to it that china honor its commitment after 1997 and alleged that britain bears a moral responsibility for hong kong, and so on. 