The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields.More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each.They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to "marry up" with their equipment at points where the ships arrive.The president said he hopes to free Kuwait through economic pressure on Saddam Hussein, which continued to mount as the world's oil-consuming nations -- and, just as importantly, many of its leading oil producers -- joined together in a campaign to cut off Iraqi oil without causing global economic dislocation.With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region, Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army, possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments."We will deploy adequate forces for the mission," said Gen. Powell.The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass.U.S. policy assumed then that the Saudis would not give U.S. forces basing rights, at least not in the initial stages of a conflict.According to industry and other sources, the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port.The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack, according to U.S. officials, could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia, a base in the Indian Ocean.Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units.President Bush, saying that "a line has been drawn in the sand," vowed in a televised address that he wouldn't tolerate the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.Both Iraq and the U.S. yesterday appeared to move closer to confrontation in their public statements.It remained unclear precisely what force the U.S. is dispatching to meet the 100,000 or more heavily-armored Iraqi troops massed on Kuwait's border.By her measure, Iraq has stockpiled thousands of tons of mustard gas, a World War I chemical that burns the skin.In Jeddah, after two hours of discussion, King Fahd, the Saudi ruler, gave his approval to the military options the U.S. officials presented.