Mr. Sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington.Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues.It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen.In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the "chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence" he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office.The president had already been searching for a way to ease Mr. Sununu out of his post gracefully.The announcement of Mr. Sununu's departure came in Meridian, Miss., where the White House distributed photocopies of the handwritten resignation letter.Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down.Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues.In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation "with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss."And the suggestion of dispatching him back home to New Hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when Mr. Bush decided to have his campaign there run by former GOP Gov.One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year; he argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat.As a result, Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of his party.Shortly before boarding the presidential aircraft in Mississippi, Mr. Sununu told reporters that he "knew the rules of the game when he came to town."But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls.At the same time, Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies.