Finance Minister Pedro Malan insisted yesterday on the need for a more profound constructive engagement on the part of multilateral institutions and governments in helping Argentina. This priority is urgent right now, he told participants in the seminar on The Euro and Brazil, organized by this newspaper. Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help. Given the degree of uncertainty that prevails over the inflation, foreign exchange and interest rates and over the economy's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) this year, the approach should not be the traditional one, the Finance Minister says. Pedro Malan's attitude in relation to Argentina is very different from that of Jaime Caruana, governor of the Bank of Spain, the Spanish central bank. To Caruana, Argentina has to create a broad program that generates internal and external stability and discuss it with the IMF. The Bank of Spain Governor did not want to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program. Spain is one of the leading investors in Argentina, whose instability had a big impact on the results of Spanish banks in 2001. According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before. Today we have comparable statistics; there is a macroeconomic monitoring group in the Finance Ministry and experts from the six countries' central banks who meet regularly. Whoever says that these are small steps is incapable of recognizing the European Union's experience, the Minister says. This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says. 