4 - Seven years ago this month, President Bill Clinton's economic advisers told him Mexico was hours away from economic default and perhaps chaos on the streets. Mr. Clinton ordered an unpopular multibillion-dollar bailout, over the objections of Congress, but with the support of a prominent Republican governor, George W. Bush of Texas. When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its own economic mismanagement. His aides argue that the circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to financial disaster. The Clinton administration, fearing economic contagion, was willing to back loans to teetering governments in Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea and Russia. But the first time his approach was tested, when Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. In contrast, during the Argentina crisis, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was nearly invisible, rarely commenting on the country's approaching default, or the violent protests that led to the resignation of President Fernando de la R? Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the fund's demands for fiscal restraint. And now Washington's message to Argentina's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, is straightforward: Come up with a workable plan, and then we will talk. There is every possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support over the last decade. Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the country. Both left-wing anti-globalization activists and some conservative economists have argued that the fund became too interventionist during the Clinton years. 