Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away. During our young years we were very poor. Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house. All of my sisters learned to cook by the age of eight. So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes. Once upon a time there was this little girl and her family. And her little girl just complained, I don't want to wash the dishes. The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes? So the little girl just said, OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes. All of a sudden the butcher knife came out of the drawer and it began to roll around in the air. And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off. Mama cut my head off with the butcher knife. Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me. But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK. All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school. As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this. So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, Baby, I really want you to go to college. It's always been my dream that my children all go to school. At that time my dad was in prison at the time, so it made it really hard for my mom. He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too. So he graduated from, um, Johnson C. Smith, here in Charlotte. If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy. So they told me about some classes that I could take at Central Piedmont. A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education. Well I didn't like writing at the time but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper. But one day I came in and I looked at my mail and I was accepted. Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself. But you would have been able to be a, a teacher if you had continued? After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school. But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so. How many different schools did you teach at? The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down. But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill. I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was. 