The punishment by a special Commonwealth committee made up of the leaders of Nigeria, South Africa and Australia was tougher than many people had expected. They talked about reconciliation and they invited the government to take some people in opposition to be part of the government, Jean Chretien, the Prime Minister, told the House of Commons yesterday. South African observers declared the election legitimate, despite contrary opinions from observers sent by the Commonwealth and the European Union. The move is largely a symbolic gesture meant to underscore disapproval of the high level of politically motivated violence that preceded the elections. Election observers reported thousands of voters were not given the chance to cast ballots in the election, while others were intimidated into voting for Mr. Mugabe's governing ZANU-PF party. In Harare, Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), whose leader Morgan Tsvangirai had challenged Mr. Mugabe, praised the Commonwealth for taking concrete action. Mr. Tsvangirai, who has been charged with treason for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mr. Mugabe, offered to hold talks with the President in an attempt to end two years of violence. In Canada, the opposition parties were highly critical of the Commonwealth, saying it should have suspended Zimbabwe indefinitely until Mr. Mugabe holds free and fair elections. The question now is what other actions are taken to ensure that there is a review of the electoral process, perhaps a reversal of that process... and some contribution to civility in Zimbabwe, he said. Canada froze future project funding to Zimbabwe last May, suspended export funding and last week banned Zimbabwe officials from visiting, but Mr. Martin said more sanctions should be imposed. The European Union and the United States have imposed a travel ban on 20 senior members of Mr. Mugabe's entourage and frozen their assets. At least 150 people have died and tens of thousands left homeless in attacks backed by Mr. Mugabe's government. 