Within the framework of that protocol, Belgium must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 7.5 percent, compared to 1990, in the 2008-2012 period. Following the formal ratification of the Kyoto protocol by all the parliaments of the concerned countries, that protocol will become equivalent to a Belgian law. We readily accept that there are good intentions on the part of both the government and this country's various sectors to comply with the Kyoto standards. However, no broad social debate has yet been conducted on the crucial question: How much should each sector or target group contribute to achieving the Belgian Kyoto standard? That is strikingly illustrated by Belgian large-scale industry, which has made great efforts over the past 10 years, over which energy intensity (energy use per unit of final product) has improved considerably. In a nutshell, benchmarking means that companies compare their energy efficiency with that of similar plants abroad. In return for their commitment, they are exempted from additional (Flemish) emission restrictions, taxes on emissions, or negotiable emission rights. A cost-efficient division of efforts implies that each sector must limit its emissions to the point at which the additional costs for one extra ton of reduction are the same in all sectors. Benchmarking guarantees only that companies belong to the top of their class, but says nothing about that class's performance as compared with the whole universe. However, taking into account these external climate costs is essential, because the users of energy-intensive goods are confronted in that way with the consequences of their choice of product. If industrial greenhouse gas emissions increase considerably over the next 10 years, that will have to be offset by a commensurate reduction of emissions in the transport sector, services, households, and so forth. Hence a broad social debate on who should contribute how much to realizing the Kyoto standards is urgently necessary. This European proposal assumes absolute restrictions on emissions (companies obtain rights to emit a certain number of tons of carbon dioxide) and is hence irreconcilable at first sight with the Flemish benchmark covenants. The great advantage of negotiable emission rights in that the system can lead to a cost-efficient division of effort among all sectors and target groups. 