When the cargo jet finally lands, approaching the landing strip from the west, the noise is deafening. Almost immediately a crack security force of mostly baby-faced Marines surrounds the plane. They wear black baseball leg guards and bulletproof vests and carry M-16 rifles. Meanwhile, Humvees mounted with.50-caliber machine guns and 40mm grenade launchers take their positions. Down the back ramp of the mammoth aircraft, the guards slowly unload the latest detainees from the war in Afghanistan, 34 altogether. Wearing bright orange wool knit caps, blacked-out goggles, earmuffs, white surgical masks, bright orange jumpsuits, denim jackets, beige mittens (taped around the wrists), handcuffs and ankle shackles, the detainees don't look natural. They walk, they shut up, they lower their heads. Watching wildlife can be a lot of fun, says the sign. Last Wednesday, the 10th flight from Kandahar to the southeastern tip of Cuba arrived, bringing the total number of detainees at Camp X-Ray to 288. A day later, another 12 came, effectively filling the camp to capacity. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations, insisting that the detainees have it better here than in Afghanistan. And, strangely, they get to write home. It's not that the U.S. military has a soft spot for the mothers of the Taliban or al-Qaida. When they're done, they're assigned to the cells in which they will begin their new lives. These are 8-feet-square, with chain-link sides and tin roofs. The next day starts with prayer call about 5 a.m. Base officials say there are Christian prisoners as well as Muslims. Each meal the detainees get is considered halal, or religiously appropriate for Muslims. For dinner they get white rice, red beans, a banana and water. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards, characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as utter boredom. If you do your job right, says Campion, 32, of Kansas City, Mo., nothing is scheduled to happen. We're not holding any lengthy debates with them or anything, Campion says. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam, 39, speaks more with the detainees than almost anybody at the camp. Base officials are considering a special meal for March 10. Somebody asks Saiful-Islam if the relationship between the detainees and God has changed since their capture. They haven't said that God has abandoned them, because they know, he says. That's the hope that they have, that God is their only hope. At this moment, I don't have an answer. Concertina wire and nine guard towers surround Camp X-Ray. Unlike other parts of the base, the camp does not have a pretty setting. Turkey vultures hover over thick brush and scraggly hills. Bright orange figures sit in their cells, some of them praying. Three guards accompany him - one on either side and one behind. This is done to provide positive control, says U.S. Army Col. Terry Carrico, in effect the prison warden. Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials say, the prisoners are docile. They didn't know if we were going to take care of them, hurt them or kill them. Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the prisoners. Darrell Sides, 30, of Fort Benning, Ga., makes no bones about considering them terrorists. The security here I would consider tighter than death row in a prison in the United States. This is for prisoners needing medical attention, as a fair number do. Some are underweight, others are missing toes, fingers and limbs. U.S. forces seized Guantanamo Bay during the Spanish-American War. That contract, extended indefinitely in 1934, can be broken only by mutual agreement. Two boys in white karate outfits run down palm-lined Sherman Avenue. Wish you could be with your family, one child has written. While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that they're not regular patients. But I still try to treat them as a patient. Fleet Hospital 20 has nine patients today. Indeed, the patient invited the surgeon for a cup of tea after the operation. Another doctor, speaking with a French accent, adds, Good job, buddy. Finally, an interpreter comes in to talk to the patient. Eight other young-looking men, with shaved heads and beards growing, recover in their cots. The general is awaiting congressional approval before building for Radio Range begins. For now, with the camp at capacity, flights here have stopped. 