Even before its faltering economy produced an epic-sized default, and the country was thrust into its worst crisis since democracy was restored in 1983, Argentines were obsessed with their past triumphs. Some call it the Ford Falcon syndrome, a reference to the classic gas-guzzler that inefficient Argentine automakers continued to turn out in droves 20 years after it disappeared from US showrooms. The man whom some economists say is leading the step backward in time is the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, Argentina's fifth in two weeks. After four years of crippling recession, Duhalde and others are questioning whether Argentina's decade-long pursuit of free market reforms is the right solution. It was approved overwhelmingly by the lower house of Congress late Saturday and was expected to be passed by the Senate yesterday. The party, founded by Gen. Juan Domingo Peron in the 1940s, has long dominated Argentine politics, thanks to a deft mix of populist policies, nationalist rhetoric, and political patronage. A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52 percent of Argentines highly in favor of Duhalde's stated economic plans and another 34 percent giving him medium approval - an indication of public confidence. For starters, there's a wariness among economists that an expected 30 to 40 percent devaluation could spark a return to the chaotic days of the late 1980s, when 5,000-percent inflation was rampant. Already, everything from bread to computer parts has been marked up by as much as 20 percent in anticipation of the devaluation. Otherwise, the country's cash-strapped banks, which are being forced to accept lesser-valued pesos for loans made almost entirely in dollars, will collapse. He's not just steering the economy into disaster, but he's breaking fundamental concepts like right to savings and the rule of law, says Abel Viglione, senior economist at local think tank Fiel. They want to hold us hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and better quality imported. 