9 unconventional ways to improve your home Conventional wisdom, as it relates to houses, is often too much convention and not enough wisdom. Every year, somebody publishes a list of which conventional home improvements will give you the best (or the worst) return on your remodeling investment. His list included this line: “A large dining room, near the kitchen. So let me rephrase the remodeling-ROI question this way: what are some cost-effective ways to improve the livability of your house? 2. Comfortable shower instead of big bathtub My firm does a lot of work in late-70s/early-80s neighborhoods that are loaded with huge tubs. A shower takes up less space, uses less hot water, and is far more sanitary than a big tub. 3. Group windows together facing best views instead of scattering them around the house Got a great view somewhere? Take excess windows from bedrooms and baths and use them to connect the inside of the house with the outside. Hey pal, did ya notice the Great Lake in your back yard? 4. Keep ceiling heights reasonable for the room size “Volume” ceilings do not automatically make better rooms. Rooms that are harder to decorate and more expensive to heat and cool. Instead, focus attention on a view, a large fireplace, or other element and away from the ceiling height. Use wall trim and multiple paint colors to break up the volume of the room and create the illusion of height. In the end, we were able to easily accommodate each child’s bedroom furniture comfortably in smaller bedrooms than what they’d had before. 6. Consider the simple elegance of the box form house Subtlety and restraint used to be virtues in home design. Others know that proper proportion, scale, and details are what turn heads. 7. Share part of the master bath This isn’t for everyone, but it really tightens up the budget and the floor plan. So how about putting in nice laminate tops now, and replacing them with granite in five years when you have the cash? I doubt any of these ideas will ever make a magazine’s list of “Best Remodeling ROI” projects. But every one saves you money over a more “conventional” design strategy, and every one increases the livability of your home. 