First, his foreign trade minister, Annemie Neyts, has to create the right climate. We should keep listening and arguing, but adopt a cautious approach. I was annoyed at politicians who sided with us just to gain popularity. Neyts, who has also been presiding the Liberal [free market-oriented] International for two years, spontaneously talks about the 1968 events on several occasions during the interview. But the protesters are not the only ones who are worried about the gulf between north and south. Neyts noticed this while reading the local press in Kenya, where she has recently been on a holiday, and in Morocco. All the country's problems are now often attributed to globalization, also country-specific problems such as corruption, for instance. In the 1930's, the first reaction to the economic depression was to close all borders. International cooperation is slow and does not function optimally, but the alternatives are worse. Neyts understands that developing countries may feel uneasy about the kind of trade negotiations that are conducted at WTO level. Out of 140 members, not even 50 percent has a permanent delegation in Geneva. Those countries do not possess the necessary expertise to conduct such highly technical negotiations. There is not one developing country that wants to link social regulations to WTO regulations. Certain excesses at EU meetings and, above all, at 'summits,' the so-called 'high masses,' sometimes call for a reaction. Closing off a zone by means of containers, as was done in Genoa, is an act of objectionable brutality. However, a clear answer that would silence all protests does not exist. Unfortunately, Renault's Vilvoorde plant did effectively close down, but this is a question of overcapacity in the automobile industry. According to Neyts, many initiatives to alleviate discontent have recently been taken. Their criticism that we obstruct agricultural products from the south is justified. But this can only change if we negotiate. Otherwise, what will happen is that existing trade blocks will grow stronger. 