This architecture was adopted because it was simple to build , fitted the theoretical preconceptions of early computer scientists , and seemed to offer the greatest reliability. At a seminar hosted by the Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project last month , researchers and vendors could finally say with confidence that supercomputing in the 1990s and beyond will be done by parallel computers. Data can not be moved from the processor to the memory and back faster than a certain speed , which limits the performance of the computer as a whole. Another limitation is the extent to which components can be shrunk before quantum effects decrease their reliability. Faced with these problems , computer scientists began in the mid 1970s to experiment with using many processors in a single machine to work in parallel on a single problem. For one thing , builders had to solve the problems of making processors communicate with one_another quickly and reliably. Would it be possible to re-use old programs written for conventional machines , or would users have to start from scratch and throw away their existing investment in software ? While some manufacturers advocated the latter , a more popular approach has been to build computers out_of conventional processors so that many current programs and , more importantly , programming concepts , can be recycled. When users want to improve the performance of their machine , they do not have to throw it away and buy a newer model. Still owned by its employees , Meiko has broken into the American and Japanese supercomputer markets , and now has offices across the US and in Europe. What this power has meant to the scientific and industrial users involved in the ECSP was made apparent during the project '_ s second annual seminar last month. Applications ranging from molecular sequencing ( an important tool in bio-engineering ) to modelling oil reservoirs , image processing and high-energy physics were described. He pointed out that every major supercomputer manufacturer , including such giants in the conventional supercomputer market as Cray , were now building multi-processor machines in_order_to stay competitive. 