Venezuela's Chief Forced to Resign; Civilian Installed CARACAS, Venezuela, April 12 - A transitional government headed by a leading businessman replaced President Hugo Chavez today, hours after military officers forced him to resign. Pedro Carmona Estanga, the head of Venezuela's most important business association, was installed as interim president at a ceremony at 6 p.m. The Bush administration laid the blame for Mr. Chavez's overthrow firmly with the ousted leader. We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government provoked this crisis, said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman. However, Latin American leaders at a summit meeting in Costa Rica criticized Mr. Chavez's ouster as an interruption of the constitutional order. He spoke flanked by military officers who had rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night, the third day of a general strike called by his opponents. In addition, the interim government repealed 49 economic laws passed by the Chavez-controlled National Assembly last year, legislation that business leaders feared would damage the economy. While pledging to hold presidential elections within 365 days, officials said that Mr. Carmona, who had been a leader in the protest movement against Mr. Chavez, will not be able to run. Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night. Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda to head Petr?s de Venezuela, the huge state-owned oil company, which exports most of its oil to the United States. It had been crippled when office and production workers began staging work slowdowns last week in protest. The interim government today ended Mr. Chavez's policy of offering oil to Cuba under terms favorable to Havana. In a phone conversation Friday morning, just before he fell from power, he told her, I am a jailed president, she said. President Vicente Fox of Mexico took a strong stand, saying his country would not recognize Venezuela's new government until elections were held. Mr. Chavez's interior minister, Ram?odr?ez Chac? was taken into custody, and the police were looking for a strong Chavez supporter, Freddy Bernal, the mayor of a district of Caracas. Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr. Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim government of responsibility in the shootings. Television broadcasts on Thursday showed several men in plainclothes firing semiautomatic handguns from a bridge over a busy street in downtown Caracas. 