IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS MOST MERCYFUL So this is the reality we're living in al-Anbar in general, and Ramadi in particular, that is the head Sheiks of some tribes, and symbols of the Islamic Party, sat with the Americans in Jordan, and other places, to fight terrorism and its people. After we took a look at the situation, we found that the best solutions to stop thousands of people from renouncing their religion, is to cut the heads of the Sheiks of infidelity and erratic. Before we start reviewing the events that accured here, we ask two questions: First: If there were people who are raping thousands of muslim women taking their honor, and stealing muslim money and land, and other people who don't rape or steal, but they take the religion away from thousands of muslims, what's more important, religion, or honor and land? Second question: Why did we announce and started fighting the Shiites and police from the start, even thought most of the Jihadist sectors and the public didn't understand what we want, and didn't know the importance of starting with those, so what's the objection on killing and executing the Sheiks now and without a notice, with continiuing making people understand it, just like we did by killing the police then, were people satisfied with us? Actually lot of the public thinks that who killed the police is Badr organization or gangs from Iran ! and that who's killing Shiites is hired by Israel and the U.S. to start an ethnic war and so on. From what we saw, the damage caused by those erratic infidels (Tribes Sheiks, The Islamic Party) is more dangerous than the Shiites and the peaceful police as people call them. The brothers now are wiping out the heads of infidelity, as soon as they started, and never claiming responsibility, we found among us who wants to make fuss about it, and regretfully some of the brothers with us in the organization (al- Qa'ida) see it as nonsense, and god is my witness. The next morning his households and neighbors started talking to the tribe saying it was the national guards, they added that they heard some of them speaking English, meaning that the Americans are the ones who took Abu Dhari (Sheik Nasr al-Fahdawi), no one claimed responsibility for his killing, thank god. 3- After our brothers killed three of the infidels in AlbuFahd, some of them claimed he's for Jihad, at the same time, protects with his soldiers the election centers, and encourages people to volunteers in the police force and the Iraqi army, and it was the second hit for Nasr al-Fahdawi. In the morning infidels announced in their satellite channels that Nasr al-Fahdawi welcomed Ibrahim al-Ja'fari in Ramadi, then by noon, they announced his assasination, thank god. Then there was a complete change of events than is was before thank god, cousins of Sheik Nasr came to the Mujahidin begging, announcing their repentance and innocense, saying we're with you, we'll do whatever you want. When Mazhar al-'Alawani a candidate for the elections was murdered, his pictures were all over Ramadi, where the entire Albu'Alwan tribe was supporting him, proud of him, one day before the elections, the brothers killed him while he was visiting Ramadi, no one from his tribe openned his mouth, instead they got more scared and weaker. Now we have Kabisah, this small village announced this week that 130 policemen volunteered from there, next day they started working, it was secretly prepared from before, and the Islamic Party was behind recruiting those policemen, like we proved. Our state council forbids from targeting Sunni police, or killing and eliminating the infidels and traitors without going back to the council, and you know that assasinations are about good apportunities, and monitoring a person could take days or weeks. We say that the brothers are following this method, that's what we learned from you and promised you, I said that this is Abu Bakr's period, toughness toughness, we in Iraq will defend the muslim nation, and Jihad is everybody's responsibility, don't miss it. 8- Zahir Muhammad 'Awwad al-'Ubaydi, manager of Sunni endowment, for attending the last meeting with al-Ja'fari, also for attending a conference in Jordan, that was presesnted to you, he's one of the people calling to form the police and national guard, we'll kill him outside al-Ramadi zone, when he goes to the government building. <LU_ANNOTATE> We have restrictions on beheading the heads of the Islamic Party members, the Sheik of the tribes, and renegages, present it to the council if you prefer: 1- There must be time priorities. 12- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahidin. 