I haven't found a single scrap of any kind of information that suggests that anyone has been treated anything other than humanely. Critics said the United States was using sensory deprivation and other psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners so that interrogations would be more fruitful. Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers. Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva Convention. Javier Solana, the European Union foreign policy chief, said that despite the Sept. 11 atrocities, changing our values and our way of life would be terrorism's first victory. The Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as prisoners of war, saying, In the fight, we need to uphold our norms and values. While debate raged elsewhere, Britain and Spain supported the United States. Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said the three British prisoners at the detention center, called Camp X-Ray, had no complaints about their treatment. Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique said the Spanish government does not have the slightest doubt regarding the position of the U.S. government. The warden at Camp X-Ray, Col. Terry Carrico, said he was determined at all times to maintain what he called positive control over the prisoners. If you want to think the worst about things, you can, he said. But he argued that whenever prisoners, especially those who are dangerous and suicidal, are transported, it only makes sense to lock them in restraints. When they are being moved from place to place, will they be restrained in a way so that they are less likely to be able to kill an American soldier? And yet, officials at Guantanamo have said that no interrogation has taken place on the base and that the prisoners do not have lawyers. In Los Angeles, a federal district judge questioned today whether he had the authority to consider a challenge to the detention of the prisoners in Cuba. 