At the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change held recently in Morocco, Japan laid artificial obstacles to the session by seeking its own profit. As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind. How the problems of the global warming and environmental preservation are handled today will have a major impact on the lives and health of people as well as the future development of the world. This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance. However, as was revealed this time, Japan, which was in a position to take the lead to solve the environmental problems, attempted to back away from solving the problems. According the Kyoto Protocol, developed countries are supposed to set goals to reduce greenhouse gases emission and officially put the Kyoto Protocol into force by the year 2002. At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere. It was expected that the protocol would be ratified by the countries that signed it and would have a legal binding force. Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the Kyoto Protocol into force and even called for liquidation of the draft. According to the Kyoto Protocol, by 2008 - 2012 Japan is supposed to reduce its greenhouse gas emission by six percent from the 1990 level. To do all these things, it needs a tremendous amount of money for investment. The United States, which has to do the most to implement the Kyoto Protocol, has come out opposing the draft regulations. In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the Kyoto Protocol. 