Meanwhile, a group of up to 800 veterans of Zimbabwe's independence war has asked for foreign help to mount a rebellion against Mr. Mugabe if he steals the election. In Harare yesterday, Michael Quintana, editor of Africa Defence Journal, said he had toured military barracks in the capital and found soldiers were moving out in small groups of three trucks at a time. They have never been used before, not even in the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mr. Quintana said. Three MiG-21 fighters flew low over farmland in Mashonaland West in an apparent intimidatory display meant to underline the threat being spread by ruling party thugs: If President Robert Mugabe loses the election, we will go to war. Already, his ruling Zimbabwean African National Unity-Patriotic Front party has moved to disenfranchise thousands of supporters of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. The government-controlled election watchdog, the Electoral Supervisory Commission, accredited only 300 of the 12,500 election monitors requested by the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. This is our major concern, said Reginald Matchaba-Hove, head of the independent Zimbabwe Election Support Network. Thousands of MDC supporters have been chased from their homes and have sought refuge in Harare and other large cities. I will take my risk and vote, he said, insisting he will travel this weekend to his hometown of Domboshawa, 27 kilometres north of the capital. In Harare, an MDC stronghold, the government has cut the number of polling stations by as much as 35%, the party charged. Meanwhile, as many as 100,000 soldiers and police officers have already voted under the watchful eye of their commanders and far from the gaze of any outside observers, Mr. Matchaba-Hove said. Morgan Tsvangirai, the MDC leader who is giving Mr. Mugabe his toughest challenge, accused his opponent of conducting a calculated campaign of intimidation. It is using state agencies, state institutions that have been built specifically to terrorize the population, Mr. Tsvangirai said yesterday. Didymus Mutasa, ZANU-PF's external affairs chief, told South African television this week that if Mr. Tsvangirai wins, ZANU-PF will support a coup. One of the country's state-owned newspapers carried a front-page story yesterday claiming Britain and the United States were preparing to support military insurgency in Zimbabwe. We are appealing for financial and logistical support for a struggle, said Aleck Ndlovu, one of three directors who run the forum. 