Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities Miami Herald January 31, 2002 Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities By Carol Rosenberg GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- You're the first-ever American Muslim cleric to minister to a prison camp full of suspected terrorists and one confides he has a weapon. "I will say, 'Give it to me,' -- and not tell the general who had it," he says softly but firmly. A 39-year-old life-long, practicing Muslim, the soft-spoken Bangladesh immigrant is navigating uncharted waters and juggling complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international spotlight he has never experienced before. As a U.S. military chaplain, his contacts with prisoners are governed by the same confidentiality as that of a priest, minister or rabbi in the clergy corps. At Camp X-ray, he is also serving the function of a muezzin, the person who announces the call to prayer, commonly from a tower called a minaret. But mostly he's a busy man, trying to soothe Muslim sensitivities over the rugged chain-linked-fence cells at Camp X-ray. 24 and made his debut by chanting the pre-dawn call to prayer to wake up alleged leaders of Afghanistan's Taliban militia and members of Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network. Soon, he says, traditional white knit skullcaps will arrive for the captives to top off their fluorescent orange jumpsuits. "These things are hard to find in America, and Gitmo is far, far away," says Saiful-Islam, a husband and father of a nearly 2-year-old daughter in California. But after several days of four- and five-hour shifts inside the camp, hearing the prisoners' requests, he said exchanges have not dipped that deeply into the doctrinal. Others require the services of Arabic interpreters -- who, like Saiful-Islam, are U.S. military men in battle dress uniforms. So far no one has asked him how a practicing Muslim can also wear the uniform of the U.S. armed forces. "If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it," he says, with a sigh. 