Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA -- It's 5 A.M. at the Roosevelt Roads Naval station in Puerto Rico, and 20 journalists straggle to the gate in sleep-deprived silence to catch a plane to Guantanamo Bay. If we're not happy, that goes double for our public affairs babysitters. Corey Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure Kennedys. I'd hate to see who got second place, whispers one reporter. Here, we are given our media indoctrination packages, never an encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy. Though it's Saturday, and we're supposed to be in Cuba until Monday, the military has changed plans and is going to make us leave Guantanamo Sunday morning. One thing's for sure, says a wire reporter, you won't have to sort through all your notes to decide what to lead with. Knowing that in some Taliban-held provinces, pederasty rivaled headless-goat polo (buzkashi) as the favorite pastime, I ask a Naval officer if there are any reports of Guantanamo prisoners turning to man-love. Though there are some Air Force personnel over there, so who knows what's going on? Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that because of international political pressure, the prisoners are getting coddled. The latest report has Army guards directing detainees on which way to pray to Mecca. North, east, whatever, he replies, I'm Lutheran--I don't know where the hell it is. Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to the ASPCA. Col. William Costello, a bearish soldier who looks like the kind of guy who enjoys breaking things on his face. His hard, dark orbs dart to and fro while he delivers a good news/bad news proposition. The good news is Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will be visiting the detainees' Camp X-Ray the next morning. Immediately, an angry media throng closes in on Costello, the air now containing an Altamont-like level of violence. My editors are going to crush my nuts, says one reporter, probably female. This is crazy, I say, How am I supposed to get enough material for a piece? Costello's blood rises as his high-and-tight haircut stands up like an angry-dog scruff: BECAUSE... As they were transported and in-processed, al Qaeda members were photographed kneeling, wearing earmuffs, shackles, and blackout goggles. Tony Blair pointed out that the three British al Qaeda members being held at Gitmo have had no complaints. But that didn't stop the Mirror's Stephen Moyes from method reporting by donning an al Qaeda rig. About the only foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp, ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the embargo or inching ever closer to dementia. (He declared January Americans' Month and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.) On the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Costello says their eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents a few hundred yards away. They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow, Costello says of the prisoners. It's where they'd strip old junkers for parts then used on jerry-rigged jalopies called Gitmo specials. It broke Christopher Columbus's, when he stopped here on his second New World voyage. He left after failing to find gold, threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't agree to pretend they'd reached Asia. It also rankles Castro, who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement. (Quick studies, the al Qaedans didn't need arrows painted on their cell floors. They get a white bucket for emergency squirts, while they are instructed to hold two fingers up for the alternative. Not just any shampoo, but Lively salon anti-dandruff shampoo--a luxurious shampoo in a gentle formula that restores moisture, shine, and body to your beautifully clean hair. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited the camp and said it's too good for the bastards ) will be happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched. WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to kill Americans. When I skirt away from my minders and visit the Marine snipers' tent, I learn it went well beyond that. Their tent looks like a Marines-issued college dorm room: Skoal-juice bottles, laundry hanging everywhere, and a spade-like sniper insignia banner tacked to a tent wall. At some point, that might become necessary, they tell me, as plotting is obviously afoot. Rodney Davis says that during chowtime, he sees them through his scope making terrain models out of their food. And unlike say, Afghan prisons, where starving detainees are reportedly begging to be sent to Gitmo, there's plenty of food to play with. When I ask the Marines if they've seen anything weird, they laugh sheepishly, looking at each other. Josh Westbrook, who sports a forearm tattoo of flaming baby heads, steps up. According to these Marines, they don't just pleasure themselves to freak out the snipers, but also to embarrass the female Army guards in the camp's interior. In the most bizarre twist, Lance Corporal Devin Klebaur says a few have also been known to put toothpaste in their ass. Many organizations who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC has aired no complaints. We see them offering them cookies, hugging them like they're best buddies. We are certainly interrogating the prisoners, though base sources won't divulge any information that's been gleaned. One of Rumsfeld's security agents mounts our bus, telling us the ground rules: no photos on the tarmac, no fighting, no hitting Rumsfeld in the head with a boom mike. He gives the sort of hooah performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the press. (Human rights hawks say the matter should be decided by a competent tribunal, whatever that is.) It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al Qaeda members. If you're a terrorist from Central Asia, it's not a bad deal: Kill Americans, get arrested, then get a pay raise from America. With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better treatment than they're already receiving. While we wait, we journalists have to stand in the hot sun most of the day. Besides drinking, our only entertainment is a pool table--one cue is cracked, the other is missing its tip. To see for yourself, don't bother canvassing Camp X-Ray prisoners. 