Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House officials said last night. Mr. Bush rejected the treaty last March, calling its targets arbitrary, its schedule too costly to meet and its terms, which are not easily applied in large developing countries, unfair. It would use $4.6 billion in tax credits over the next five years to encourage companies and individuals to limit those emissions. Utilities, for example, would get incentives to build power-generating windmills; homeowners would get new tax credits for buying solar panels or more efficient cars. On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. A senior administration official did say, however, that if insufficient progress was being made by 2012, there could be a move toward some kind of limits. Some environmental groups criticized this kind of checkup, saying it puts off any measuring of progress until well after Mr. Bush is out of office. But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as the economy grows, this would not result in emissions reductions. White House officials said this could prompt industries to change behavior, the same way similar reporting requirements instituted in the late 1980's resulted in big cuts in releases of toxic chemicals. And Myron Ebell, a climate policy expert at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a private group whose free- market views are frequently embraced by industry, criticized the idea from the opposite ideological direction. Japan, which has avoided criticizing the administration over its rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush is concerned about the issue. 