The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. In recent years the RegClim research project, under the aegis of the Norwegian Research Council, has worked to estimate the way the climate will develop in Norway in 30 to 50 years. The main conclusions were that the trend toward warmer weather and more precipitation will presumably continue. North Norway will also get more precipitation in the fall but warmer temperatures in the winter. Even if we can say with great certainty that climate changes will come, we need more knowledge about the effects. How must local societies organize themselves if a couple of hurricanes every year become normal? Will climate changes produce new types of pests that will create problems? For the next few years our goal is to both gain more knowledge and put together good preparedness strategies. All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. We must avoid seeing environmental problems increase the social differences in the world. For that reason the rich countries-those making the climate worse-must go on the offensive to solve the problems we ourselves have created. But if we do not make these expenditures now, the bill for the generations to come will be even bigger. The government's policy statement states, among other things, that the establishment of a national quota system should be speeded up. The consensus that has been achieved internationally about the period 2008-2012 is just the first step down the road. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. Many countries, among them Denmark, Great Britain, and Sweden, are already under way developing early quota systems. Measures about emissions-how much all of those obligated by a quota can emit. I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system. Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. In addition to producing climate benefits, such measures will contribute to development and reduced local pollution in poor countries. 