's agreement to acquire 51% of Sansui Electric Co. proves that foreign companies can acquire Japanese companies -- if the alternative for the Japanese company is extinction. Polly Peck, a fast-growing British conglomerate, will pay 15.6 billion yen ($110 million) for 39 million new shares of Sansui, a well-known maker of high-fidelity audio equipment that failed to adjust to changing market conditions. The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke, Mr. Nadir said. If you find sound, healthy companies in Japan, they are not for sale, said George Watanabe, a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc. But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies. If the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies weren't deterrents enough, webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers. But in recent years, the market has moved toward less expensive mini-component sets, miniaturized amplifiers and receivers and software players that could be stacked on top of each other. Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president. Yoshihisa Murasawa, a management consultant for Booz-Allen & Hamilton (Japan) Inc., said his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. Attitudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they're becoming more positive, Mr. Murasawa said. Whether Polly Peck's acquisition makes sense remains to be seen, but at the news conference, Mr. Nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn Sansui around. Such risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir, who is 25% owner of Polly Peck as well as its chairman. 