The Europeans are enthusiastically holding in their hands the euro, our currency that for so long had been no more than a much-wielded slogan. It is not enough to proclaim, even in the Constitution, that one peso is worth one dollar, for that to be really the case. It more than doubled during the 1990s, from $60 billion to $132 or even $150 in 2001, making Argentina the number one market borrower among the emerging economies. The fall came in 1998, when Brazil, made vulnerable by the Asian crisis, abandoned its fixed parity against the dollar. Credibility evaporated, to quote the expression of one expert who stresses the paradoxes of a system whose bases seemed sound. First paradox: The Argentine economy is not very open, not even to its neighbors in Latin America. But this Chinese territory has an extremely open economy, to the point where its exports exceed its GDP, thereby facilitating the influx of foreign currency. The risk premium has always been considerable, rates never falling below 10 percent. Argentine pension funds have enjoyed interest rates as high as 35 percent over recent months: No less than 45 percent of the national debt estimated at between $130 and $150 billion is held by the Argentines themselves. Over recent weeks street demonstrations culminating in the general strike of 13 December have been the most visible aspect of a civil war between creditors and debtors. Appeals were already made to the creditors during the first phase of the debt rescheduling involving the $55 billion held by Argentine funds and that was completed at the end of November. At the same time private debtors who became indebted in a strong currency would find themselves ruined by a peso devaluation. But neither dollarization nor the currency board provides a guarantee of low interest rates, as there will always be an Argentine risk. That leaves the most economically realistic solution, the one backed by the technical experts: Floating the currency, but it is also the most risky. 