Stephen Weeks VLORE , Albania 1997-03-31 Albanian rebels holding this Adriatic port added Rome to their list of enemies on Monday after a crowded refugee boat intercepted by the Italian navy sank last week. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. Explains what Italy must accept responsibility for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. Explains what Italy must accept responsibility for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The sudden rush of hatred toward Rome comes just ahead_of the planned deployment of an Italian-led multinational security force in Albania to protect humanitarian relief supplies. We lost our families , _ said Gjergji Greni , 34. Residents also fired thousands of rounds from an array of looted army weapons and threw flowers into the sea to honour the dead. Council leader Albert Shyti told the rally Italy must admit responsibility , punish the guilty and compensate families of victims and _ only then will Italians be accepted in our town _. The region remains defiantly outside of government control and the port has been closed , except to illegal refugee boats , since the insurrection began. No work , no money , no pension and no choice but to head for Italy or Greece , _ said Kristi Vero , 50. 