Rapidly growing environmental fears have made climate research more important then ever ? and Europe is forging ahead in the field with the planned launch of the ERS-1. As Nicholas Booth reports , Britain is playing a prominent role in a complex satellite which could unveil the mysteries of the Earth '_ s resources The Euro-eyes of the world. IN THE YEAR that saw mankind '_ s first wave of planetary exploration reach a glorious climax with Voyager 2's passage of Neptune , it is clear that new space efforts will concentrate on the third planet from the Sun. Already trumpeted as & bquo ; A Mission To Earth & equo ; by Nasa , climate research has gained new prominence , chiming with the rise in environmental concerns the world over. ERS-1 is currently under test in Toulouse , scheduled for launch next October , at_least two years before any other satellites as part of an international monitoring programme for the 1990s. Whilst other space agencies have equally ambitious plans , they remain as blueprints , or , as one European scientist puts it , & bquo ; pie-in-the-sky-eyes-in-the-sky. & equo ; ERS-1 has five instruments which will scan the Earth at microwave wavelengths to monitor ocean , ice and land resources. Microwave techniques will enable ERS-1 to return data continuously : they can & bquo ; see & equo ; through cloud and operate at night. Orbiting the Earth at 780 kilometres altitude , ERS-1 will fly over the poles on each orbit and its instruments will cover the whole of the globe during three days. The Active Microwave Instrument radar system , built by Marconi Space Systems , is significant because it can be used over land or ocean : it will return vital information about how the wind interacts with waves. Climate modelling and assessing environmental change will need more than three years _' data if it is to be enhanced. Perhaps more importantly , governmental space sources relate that Margaret Thatcher is behind ERS-2. & bquo ; She knows about ERS-2 and is enthusiastic about it , & equo ; says one. 