Latin American and European government leaders today joined protesters in Buenos Aires, Wall Street traders and financial experts in putting at least part of the blame for Argentina's problems on the lending agency and the Clinton and Bush administrations. Others say the fund made the opposite mistake, repeatedly offering loans to Argentina despite indications that the country's policies had become unworkable, delaying the day of reckoning. In practice, however, the Bush administration has yet to take a clear stance on such bailouts and has made international financial policy a low priority. Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible. Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F. for abandoning a longtime client and imposing demands that have been excessive or at the wrong time. The French, who like the United States are significant fund shareholders, have called on the lending agency to step up its involvement to help Argentina recover. After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of American plumbers and carpenters, Mr. O'Neill supported a multibillion loan for Argentina in August. He has also backed two large rescue packages for Turkey, a strategic ally that has faced tough financial problems. When Argentina's crisis worsened in recent weeks, Bush administration officials did not take a firm position, allowing the I.M.F. to make the call on withholding additional loans, people involved in the fund's deliberations said. Even the harshest critics of the I.M.F. put most of the blame for Argentina's current plight on a succession of governments in Buenos Aires. But many say the monetary fund should have called government officials to account sooner. But subsequent governments allowed spending to grow out of control, building up a foreign debt that became impossible to maintain. Backed by both the Clinton and Bush administrations, the I.M.F. twice came to the rescue, beginning late last year. Michael Mussa, the I.M.F.'s chief economist until last spring, said the fund was justified in providing aid to Argentina late last year. It outlined strict fiscal policies that it claimed would allow it to meet its obligations. But by December, as Mr. Cavallo resorted to freezing bank accounts and raiding pension funds to find enough hard currency to make debt payments, collapse looked imminent. Nearly every major financial rescue effort, including those in Mexico, Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, Russia and Brazil, has come under intense scrutiny from the left and the right, albeit for widely varying reasons. 