A report about settlement activity in Palestinian territories has confirmed that 36 new settlement sites--settlement enclaves--have been created since Sharon became Prime Minister of Israel less than a year ago. Also the report, whose findings were announced at a press conference yesterday, noted that three military positions were turned into civilian settlements and work had started on a new settlement called Giv'at Sal'it in the southern valleys region. Taysir Khalid, member of the PLO Executive Committee and of the political bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, advocate Faris Abu-Hasan from the Solidarity Establishment, and Hasan Ayyub, director of the National Bureau for Defense of Land, took part in the conference. The report also noted that work on bypass roads continued at a rate faster than that of the government of Barak who gave free rein to settlement activities. It said that about 487,093 fruit trees were uprooted during the second half of last year and 32,000 donums of agricultural land were bulldozed. He pointed to the allocations in the Sharon Government's budget for supporting and widening settlements and building new ones, despite the crisis and recession from which Israel's economy suffers. He stressed the need to concentrate on resisting settlement activity, settlers and their militias, and abstaining from subjecting this file to any discussion as a condition for halting the intensified settlement activities and removing existing settlements. He said: There are two grave violations, the first concerns settlement building and the transfer of settlers to the Palestinian territories on which tens of settlements have been built. He surveyed the attacks against unarmed citizens carried out by settlers, the legal protection and backing they are provided by Israeli governments, and the encouragement that this gives them to continue their assaults. He confirmed that 30 Palestinians were martyred at the hands of settlers, 60 persons were hit by settlers' bullets, while more than 77 others were injured in various assaults by settlers. He noted that during the current intifadah settlers uprooted more than 6,580 fruit trees, destroyed more than 4,099 cultivated donums, while 85 houses, 90 commercial premises, more than 100 cars, and 17 ambulances were damaged as a result of attacks carried out by settlers. 