On the agenda of tomorrow's meeting of the Russian government is the question of ratification of the Kyoto Protocol -- a highly important international document that is supposed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The world community became hopeful that it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change (1994). Participants in the debate also proceeded from the postulate that the earth's atmosphere has been heating up over the past 100 years. It is another matter that the reasons for this alarming phenomenon are not completely clear, and experts offer different interpretations of the consequences of global warming. Sagdeyev looked at Budyko with interest: But then where will we buy grain? The expert immediately sketched on a blackboard what this should look like, mixing up chemical symbols: rockets would carry metallic sodium into orbits around the earth. Cooling aerosols dispersed over the polar zones would prevent overheating of the tundra during sunny summer nights. True, the sun-screening space umbrella (the author's name) does not have much chance of opening up, due to political-economic circumstances. Indeed, the idea has not yet captivated the masses so much that they would remove their last trousers to start investing immediately in the project. But the expert urged everyone to despair, since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares. In Mr. Gudkov's view, everything is developing well, we can take our time, and we can do nothing at all, since global warming is a threat only to the southern countries. The Obvious is Incredible The speaker's ardor was cooled by the well-known Sergey Kapitsa, who is not inclined to give way to rapture over the advantages promised to Russia. Six degrees, the professor believes, is unlikely, since that kind of thing has not happened on the planet in the past 420,000 years. Before predicting the future, we must learn how to predict the past, Kapitsa summed up. A consensus was arrived at that climate has always changed, but it has never occurred with such speed. For example, Prof. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan maintain that we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes; warming is merely one aspect of these changes. Our country has something like a controlling block of shares, since without Russia and the US the Kyoto Protocol will die. And if the States behave badly, we are simply obligated to ratify this document -- this was the conclusion arrived at by the round table. We will also gain from the fact that compliance by other nations with the terms of the protocol will lead to higher demand for gas, of which we have huge resources. So if anyone doubts whether Russia should ratify the document, he is deeply mistaken. True, this position makes one think of Yemelya's [illusory] happiness and worry about the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole). Nikolay Ratsiborinskiy, a senior adviser to the Foreign Ministry's Department of International Organizations, took up this role. In short, if you don't want to exert yourself, buy the neighbor's quota; if you don't want to spend the money, use your brain and invest in the development of nature-conservation technologies. The assessment by the Foreign Ministry official is brilliant, exclaimed Aleksandr Ginzburg, deputy director of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics. Russia's emissions are almost twice as great as those of Germany and Japan (in fourth and fifth places). A total of 186 nations are parties to the convention, including Russia, all of the developed countries and all of the CIS countries. Facts According to estimates by the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Energy, Russia's total carbon-dioxide emissions in 2008-2012 will be 20 percent below the 1990 level. So far this potential has been utilized only to a small degree, whereas there are almost no such reserves left in the EU countries and Japan. That is why carrying out a project and reducing emissions in Russia is far cheaper than in most developed countries. The US, Japan and members of the EU must reduce emissions by 7, 6 and 8 percent from the 1990 level. A limitation, rather than reduction, of emissions is specified for several developed countries (New Zealand, Norway), and Australia and Iceland received the right to increase emissions. We are not required to reduce emissions, but over five years (from 2008 through 2012) we do not have the right to exceed their volume. Within the framework of the protocol our country must maintain records of, and monitor, emissions and emission quotas, as well as regulate quotas. This requires creating a national system of inventorying emissions and establishing a special registration center to maintain records of quotas. Experts' Opinion No One Will Be Well Off Should we be happy about climate change? If the mean temperature rises by 2 degrees, the range of fluctuations will widen and will go, for example, from -40 to +45 degrees. What will happen to industrial and transport facilities, housing and other infrastructure that were built in permafrost, which will turn into muddy swamp? Some species are disappearing, while others, conversely, are starting to multiply will unprecedented speed. Gangster species are appearing, such as the locust, which is moving toward the north, where it has never been before. It is hard to say today what will happen to edaphic microflora, which is of fundamental importance to soil fertility. If microflora stop reproducing humus, the higher plants will die, agricultural crops will stop growing, and timber will start to dry up. If the glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland melt down, the level of the world's oceans will rise. Incidentally, last year's incredibly cold winter in Primorskiy Kray was very possibly an example of the same property. Because, strange as it may seem, prolonged, stagnant cold spells are also a result of global warming when there is less ventilation of the atmosphere as a whole. As for all the ideas regarding blocking shields, umbrellas and the like, I will answer this way. 