Larry Fine NEW YORK 1997-03-31 Major League Baseball , which is dedicating the 1997 campaign to the anniversary of the most profound change in the game , launches a new season Tuesday full of fresh twists and challenges. The World Series champion New York Yankees will play the New York Mets , and the Chicago Cubs will battle the Chicago White Sox this season in games that count as nearly 100 years of tradition dissolves with the advent of interleague play. Others are salivating at the propects of stirring up new rivalries and fleshing out what had been only a match-up fantasy of day-dreaming fans. It is fitting that this breaking down of barriers comes as baseball celebrates the greatest dream come true for the game $-- the smashing of the colour line 50 years ago by Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers. No_more wondering what great sluggers of the Negro League like Josh Gibson would do against major league pitchers , or how well a Satchel Paige could baffle big league hitters. Nothing could compare with that bold stroke engineered by Dodgers' general manager Branch Rickey , but this season brings radical changes of its own. The labour peace that was finally reached after the crippling players' strike of 1994 brought about a salary cap agreement between the owners in addition to interleague play. East Division teams meet their counterparts in the East , Central plays Central and West gets West in games that represent less than one-tenth of the 162-game schedule. The St Louis Cardinals added speedy second baseman Delino DeShields to their attack and hope to hold off the Houston Astros in the weak Central Division. Toronto also acquired National Leaguers Carlos Garcia ( second base ) , Orlando Merced ( outfield ) and Benito Santiago ( catcher ) and appear poised to contend with the Yankees and Baltimore Orioles in the East. The Yankees will hand over the closer's job to Mariano Rivera as last year's ace John Wetteland left for the Texas Rangers. Second is another famous Yankee duo $-- Babe Ruth ( 60 ) and Lou Gehrig ( 47 ) of the 1927 Bombers. 