That al-Qa'ida terrorists and Taliban fighters are not very concerned about the human suffering that they have caused is also generally known. These rules, laid down in the four Geneva Conventions, provide, among other things, for the protection of sick and wounded servicemen and prisoners of war. In addition, attempts must be made to prevent any unnecessary suffering by both military personnel and civilians by, for instance, imposing restrictions on the use of weapons. Hence, humanitarian law requires that in all circumstances a distinction be made between military targets and those not involved in the armed conflict. The two supplementary protocols to the Geneva Conventions, adopted in 1977, increase, among other things, the protection of the civilian population. This has happened despite solemn pledges to the United Nations that the United States is committed to minimizing civilian casualties and damage to civilian property. In other case, too, it seems doubtful that the crucial distinction between military and civilian targets was made systematically. According to witnesses, these were attacks in an area where neither al-Qa'ida troops nor Taliban had been observed. Even if these attacks were directed against a clear military target, the large number of civilian casualties would still never be justifiable, because whoever plans a military attack must take all precautions to prevent such a tragedy. That would amount to a flagrant violation of humanitarian law: whoever ceases fighting for whatever reason is entitled to protection. Now, nearly two months later, concern about the fate of the captive Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters has further increased. Humanitarian law leaves no doubt that those who fall captive in their opponent's hands are entitled at all times to decent treatment, even if they do not qualify for prisoner of war status. Shortly after its decision to take military action, the Bush administration also decided to provide the press with only sparse information about the course of the operation. Under the protest of international and US human rights organizations but with the approval of large sections of the population, antiterrorism measures are being adopted in great haste. The need for timely and accurate information about possible new attacks is naturally particularly great, but whether the global ban on torture can be abused on that account is another matter. Hence guilt need not be established beyond reasonable doubt, nor is there any mention of a presumption of innocence. There also seems to be a difference among the foreigners: In all likelihood, captured British fighters will be sent to Britain after questioning. A number of other countries have sharpened their laws following 11 September, from increased detention possibilities to stricter legislation on asylum and immigration. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called Palestinian leader Arafat Our Usama Bin Ladin. 