Already, Washington's refusal to grant them official prisoner-of- war status has sparked protests from human rights groups, and a disagreement with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), which oversees the Geneva Conventions. Rather, it appears to be sidestepping the conventions in order to craft an unusual legal strategy that will enable it to try Al Qaeda suspects in special US military tribunals. Fifty men are currently being held in Guantanamo, in six-by-eight foot concrete-floored cells, with wooden roofs and chainlink fence walls that leave them open to the elements. US military engineers are preparing to build up to 2,000 such cells, if necessary; more than 400 prisoners are still being held in Afghanistan. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told re- porters that we do plan to, for the most part, treat them in a manner that is reasonably consistent with the Geneva Conventions, to the extent that they are appropriate. That description severely reduces the rights that the men would have as POWs under the Geneva Conventions, and prompted a rebuttal from the International Red Cross. He recalled that a US court determined that former Panamanian strongman Manuel Noriega was a POW, despite the government's refusal to classify him as such following his capture. The issue goes to the heart of the US administration's hopes of prosecuting Al Qaeda leaders suspected of involvement in terrorist attacks against US targets. The Pentagon has also stressed that the prisoners are being well treated, given three culturally appropriate meals a day, and the opportunity to shower, exercise, and receive medical attention. Human rights organizations, however, have raised questions about the prisoners' housing conditions, which according to the Geneva Convention should be the same standard of those enjoyed by their guards. If US POWs were ever kept under these conditions, the United States would complain, and rightly so, says James Ross, a senior legal adviser with the New York-based Human Rights Watch. 