Four out_of every five restaurants serve them , and our import bill reached 100m in 1987. Britons now chomp their way through more than 27,000 tonnes a year ? about half a kilo for every man , woman and child. Dr Eric Edwards of the Shellfish Association says : & bquo ; Customer reaction is that they are stylish and upmarket. & equo ; Demand in Europe and North America continues to rise by 4 per_cent a year $- despite the fact that natural sources are already overfished. For this reason , prawn farming thrives in South and Central America , Taiwan , China , Japan , Indonesia , the Philippines and Thailand , where tropical species grow very quickly , giving two or three crops per year. But while rising demand , high prices and fast growth provide the stimulus , the prawn '_ s life-cycle presents many problems for the would-be farmer. A team of scientists from the distinctly untropical environment of the University College of North Wales in Bangor has solved some of these problems by designing food fit for a prawn to eat. Here the female may produce 800,000 eggs which hatch within 36 hours into larvae. The larvae undergo a complex cycle of 12 stages in almost as many days , making their way back inshore as they reach their adult form. Traditionally , prawn farmers have trapped these young adults ( or & bquo ; post-larvae & equo ; as they are called ) and put them into ponds. Hatchery owners then face the problem of getting supplies of the right feedstuffs for their metamorphosing crop. In the past , hatcheries have had to rely on live feed , which is as unreliable and expensive to harvest from nature as it is to grow artificially. However , throwing organic matter into water feeds the bacteria as_well_as the prawns , which are quite fussy about who shares their environment. So the problem was to create a feed which came in particles of the right size ( five millionths of a metre across ) , could be freeze-dried , would not foul the water , dissolve or feed the bugs. We have now been able to remove all non-nutrients from the mixture ? which is lucky because amines are actually very toxic. & equo ; After their initial breakthrough , the team still had much to do before the process became commercially viable. Developing the diet has had great scientific spin-offs. & bquo ; It '_ s amazing that a multi-million pound industry was built on an animal nobody knew anything about , & equo ; Dr Jones says. & bquo ; We have 50 years of data on the chicken or the pig. 