They say that these captives not only receive humanitarian treatment, their religious belief is also respected. While these foods are strange to the prisoners, the United States has indeed abided by the dietary rules that Muslims have to follow. Under the request of organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media, the United States let them go to Guantanamo to inspect the situation of the detainees there. If the above reports were true, then the treatment for the prisoners would be beyond reproach. Certain American people also maintain that the US way of treating the prisoners is not reproachable. The international community, however, has different descriptions and views on this issue. A medium has this description for the Guantanamo prisoners' camp: The 2.5-square meter cement cell is way below the standards of cells built for American prisoners. Fully-armed watchful US prison guards and naval personnel make the rounds of inspection in the camp. They are not allowed to look around, talk, hear, or touch anything; nor are they allowed to move freely. British Secretary of Foreign Affairs Straw said: All detainees, regardless of their identities, should receive the treatment in line with the humanitarian spirit and the principles of international law. Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed. But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs. Basing on the media reports, the US Government has many things to consider on this issue. Evidently, after the September 11 pains, the US Government is harboring deep hatred for these prisoners. It may even want to seek revenge and use them to reassert its authority. Thus, the United States cannot simply consider this issue as contradiction between the enemy and itself, it must also consider international relations. What appears does not seem to be what the United States wants, however. The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners. Avna Kidlon [name as transliterated], senior policy advisor to Amnesty International, said: The status of the detainees is an issue concerning their life or death. While the international community does not have any universally acknowledged definition for terrorist, there is also not any established provision in international law for assessing the punishments for terrorists. Moreover, the Taliban and al-Qaeda members came from many countries in the world and the POW issue involves the laws and dignity of many countries. Without a doubt, the United States' willfulness is what has greatly annoyed some countries and international organizations. Before the war, US President Bush, in his war mobilization speech, declared that the country was in a state of war. After winning the war, the US Government has come up with many other excuses to deny the captives' POW status. Thus, even though Uncle Sam's certain worries are justified, his hegemonic way of setting the rules all by himself is hardly convincing. If similar problems occur in the future, other countries will have no universally-acknowledged rules to follow. Taking these factors into consideration, Powell, a soldier-turned statesman and a moderate, advised Bush: We might as well give the Guantanamo detainees the POW status. Promulgated in 12 August 1949, the Geneva POW Convention became effective on 21 October 1950. These detainees are instructed not to look around, not to talk, not to listen, and not to touch anything. They shall receive humanitarian treatment, and they shall especially not be subjected to any outrage, coercion and humiliation, or harassment by the curious public. Clothing, underwear, and footwear shall be supplied to POWs in sufficient quantity by the Detaining Power; and they must be adequate for ensuring POWs' health. They shall be tried with US soldiers in the same court for war crime. 