A Brief History Jerusalem' s recorded history begins with its mention in Egyptian court records 4,000 years ago, but there had been human settlements here for centuries, probably millennia, before that. The earliest name associated with the city, Ur usalim, perhaps meant "city of Shalim" or "founded by Shalim. " Scholars speculate that Shalim might have been an ancient Semitic deity of peace, for the name resembles the modern Hebrew and Arabic words for "peace" : shalom and salaam, respectively. The Bible describes how David' s soldiers conquered Jerusalem by discovering a water tunnel under the walls and using it to take the city by surprise. Warren' s Shaft, part of a Canaanite water system discovered by 19th-century archaeologists and open to visitors, might be the very tunnel infiltrated by David' s army. He also brought the Ark of the Covenant, the portable tabernacle containing the Tablets of the Law received on Mount Sinai, to the Spring of Gihon, just outside the walls of Jerusalem. There the Ark rested until it was placed in the Temple, built in approximately 960 b.c. on Mt. Moriah, the high point at the northern end of the city. Along with this splendid house of worship, Solomon built a royal palace, mansions for his wives, temples for the foreign gods worshipped by the princesses he had married, and towers for the defense of the capital. The Temple and royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years. The Bible tells us that the cruelty and impiety of the rulers of both kingdoms aroused the fury of the great Prophets. In 701 b.c. the Assyrian armies of Sennacherib destroyed Israel and moved southward to besiege Jerusalem. " In time, the kingdom of Babylon was overthrown and the Israelites were permitted to return to Jerusalem in 539 b.c. When Seleucid rulers outlawed Judaism, Jews led by Judah Maccabee and his brothers staged a revolution in 167 b.c. and, against all odds, restored the primacy of Jewish religious life in Jerusalem. The Macabbees cleansed the Temple of Hellenistic idols and the blood of pagan sacrifices; the eight-day celebration of Hanukkah (Feast of Dedication) commemorates their victory. The Hasmonean dynasty, descendants of the Maccabee family, ruled an independent Jewish Commonwealth that stretched from the Negev to the Galilee. Roman Jerusalem After the initial years of Roman administration and political infighting, Rome installed Herod (scion of a family from Idumea, a Jewish kingdom in the desert) as King of Judea. Herod also completely rebuilt the Temple, making it one of the most important religious centers in the Roman Empire. The courtyard around the Temple was expanded to accommodate hundreds of thousands of pilgrims, and the Temple Mount was shored up by retaining walls made with great stone blocks. A massive fortress was built overlooking the Temple Mount, which Herod named "Antonia" in honor of his Roman friend and benefactor, Mark Antony. The planned new Roman city, Aelia Capitolina, was built over the ruins of Herodian Jerusalem, and Jews were barred from residing there for all time. She found that the city' s most beautiful Roman temple, dedicated to the goddess Aphrodite, stood on the site of the crucifixion. The temple was demolished and a vast, Classical-style church was built around Golgotha (the hill where Jesus' s crucifixion was believed to have taken place). Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced Jerusalem to rubble again. By about 715, the El-Aksa Mosque, third holiest place of prayer in Islam (after Mecca and Medina), had been built on the southern side of the Temple Mount. In 1099, under their leaders Godfrey de Bouillon and Tancred, the Crusaders captured the Holy City for Christendom by slaughtering both Muslims and Jews. They built many impressive churches during the term of the first Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, but in 1187 they were driven out by Muslim forces under the great warrior Saladin. During the Sixth Crusade (1228 -- 1229), the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II managed to secure Jerusalem for the Christians by negotiation. After they lost Jerusalem, a Mongol invasion swept through, and in 1244 the Mameluke dynasty of Egypt took control, ruling Jerusalem for the next 250 years. But when Suleiman died, his empire, including Jerusalem, began a long period of decline. The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the destination of thousands of travelers each year. 19th-Century Aspirations At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally called) and especially to Jerusalem. In the 1890s, Theodor Herzl (1860 -- 1904) worked to organize a movement, Zionism, to create a Jewish state. Chaim Weizmann (1874 -- 1952), a scientist born in Russia but later a British subject, did much to put Herzl' s hopes into practice. The problem was that British strategists, who were fighting the Ottoman Turks in 1917, had secretly promised the lands to their World War I Arab allies. Modern neighborhoods, hospitals, schools, and the Hebrew University were built in West Jerusalem, the new Jewish enclave. But Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp. But lacking the means to enforce its decision, the United Nations was powerless to halt the fighting that erupted as the British withdrew their troops in 1948. However, with the city partitioned by fortifications and barbed wire, no Israeli or Jewish pilgrims were allowed to visit the Western Wall or other Jewish sites in East Jerusalem. Political and religious boundaries were aggravated by occasional incidents of terrorism or sniping until the Six Day War in June 1967. 