20 - President Fernando de la R?signed today, halfway through his four-year term, swamped by violent protests and looting that erupted when his government failed to reverse a deepening economic crisis. The resignation letter, which was delivered to Congress late in the day, followed violent food riots and protests here and in several cities. At least five demonstrators were killed today, bringing the death toll to 21 since the protests began early Wednesday. Argentina, with widening budget deficits, is heavily indebted to foreign lenders and is battling to prevent more defaults. After a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs, the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and has no consensus as to what should be done. Defiant crowds chanted assassins, assassins, assassins, making the scenes of anarchy reminiscent of the turbulent days of military rule from 1976 to 1983. The violence today followed looting and rioting in 11 of Argentina's 24 provinces on Wednesday, and much damage to private businesses, especially food stores. But his assumption of emergency powers appeared only to incite greater protests, beginning with an outpouring of thousands of people Wednesday night onto the streets of Buenos Aires, banging pots and pans and demanding Mr. de la R?resignation. When that call was rebuffed, Mr. de la R?ld his closest aides that he had no choice but to tape a televised resignation address. As soon as Nicolas Gallo, a senior personal aide to Mr. de la R?old reporters late this afternoon that the president had decided to resign, the streets began to calm. Most opposition party leaders have called for the devaluation of the peso and suspension of payment on the country's debts. They are also suggesting that business and consumer loans that are now valued in dollars be revalued into new peso amounts that would reduce the overall debt. This scheme is designed to help middle-class people with home mortgages and car loans that are currently valued in dollars. Other losers could well be Argentine businesses that owe dollar debts abroad but collect revenue in pesos at home. Cabinet officials on Wednesday publicly accused the Buenos Aires governor, Carlos Ruckauf, a former vice president and one of the most powerful leaders of the opposition, of instigating the looting to overthrow the government. 