With small blue masks over their mouths, ear muffs on their ears, and goggles covered up with sticky tape. Their beards shaven off: for hygiene, say the camp's military commanders; to humiliate them in their religion, reply human rights defenders half the world over. They are Taliban, and perhaps members of al-Qa'ida, but nobody can say so with certainty because their names are not known, and there are no formal charges. The government has 30 million dollars ready to build in Guantanamo ('Gitmo' to generations and generations of Marines) nine top-security prisons just for them: But up until then it will keep them in the cages. We could keep some of them for an undetermined period, they are dangerous individuals, announced Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. In any case, they are better off than they were when we caught them, added the Minister. Those people were ready to gnaw through the cables of the C17 to make it crash, said Richard Myers, the Chief of Staff. And the masks are to prevent tuberculosis from spreading, assured the commander of X-Ray, Brigadier General Mike Lehnert. But the head of the medical staff of Amnesty International, Jim West, has claimed that there is no other explanation for these measures than the attempt to degrade the human condition. Other human rights groups have talked in terms of sensory segregation,' In that condition, you suffer from hallucinations, stated Helen Bamber, from the Medical Foundation for Protecting Victims of Torture, on television. The Americans are issuing denials, saying There is no inhumane treatment, and we are open, as far as possible, to the suggestions of the Red Cross. But if the yardstick of our juridical civilization is the Taliban, we are ruined, noted one or two commentators. In the camp, life is regulated by prayers (five times a day, the only freedom allowed) and by searches. Three meals (cereal bars, rice, beans, fruit), showers, and medical checks with handcuffs on. Around the fenced off area, two acres in size, stand seven towers with sub-machine guns and grenade launchers. Kenneth Roth, of Human Rights Watch, claims that this policy could offer a pretext to less democratic countries among those countries which are allies of the Americans, to suppress any domestic dissent. 