US begins flying Afghan prisoners to Cuba WASHINGTON: The US military on Thursday began flying al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners under heavy guard from Afghanistan to jail at the American Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a military spokesman said. An Air Force C-17 cargo plane with 20 of at least 371 detainees being held in Afghanistan departed Kandahar air base at about 11 am EST (1600 GMT), Marine Corps Maj. He declined to say when the first prisoners might arrive at facilities surrounded by razor wire at the US Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay. US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters that major security precautions were being taken in moving the prisoners, including hard-line, anti-Western followers of fugitive guerrilla leader Osama Bin Laden. No injuries were reported as a result of the gunfire, which came from outside the base, he added. These were two isolated incidents, in that the detainee movement was something that we did not get official notification that we were going to do until this morning, Lt. The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed concern about reports that the prisoners may be drugged, hooded and shackled, saying that they must be treated with full respect for international standards. If restraints are necessary, they must be applied humanely, with adequate opportunity for the prisoner to move limbs, use the bathroom and eat and drink, the group said in a statement. Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden. They are fully aware that these are dangerous individuals, he said during a press conference with Australian Defence Minister Robert Hill. What we have done all along is (said) that they are being treated humanely in accordance with the Geneva Convention, Clarke told reporters. It was not known if American John Walker, captured fighting with Bin Laden's now vanquished protectors the Taliban, would be among those brought to Guantanamo. Under close scrutiny from civil rights groups, Rumsfeld has been studying how such trials could be held while protecting the rights of any defendants and keeping tight security over the US war on terrorism declared by Bush after the attacks. 