Chapter 5 A Physics of Semantics? ach of the chapters of Investigations broaches new territory. Each is tentative and incomplete, pointing but not fully adequate. There are grounds, reasoned about by the best of philosophers and scientists of the past several centuries, to doubt a physics of semantics. Know-how Bring ourselves empathetically and objectively back three billion years to the mixed microbial community flourishing right about where most of us are now, plus or minus a modicum of layers of surface crustal material. "Know that" concerns propositions, most conveniently, human propositions. "Know that" brings with it the standard and nonstandard issues of the truth or falseness of propositions as they report states of the world. Perhaps higher primates who are trained to manipulate simple symbols with apparent reference to the world also can "know that" with respect to propositions. Unlike "know that," "know-how" does not involve propositions about the world. "Know-how" involves procedural knowledge about how to get on in the world. The cheetah streaking after the wildebeest, the athletic genius high jumping, have the know-how to do it. I certainly want to say yes, without attributing consciousness in any way. It knows how all right, even if it cannot talk about how it gets on with its business. Semantics All of which brings us, inevitably, to the brink of semantics. I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent. If yum, then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first. Once yuck and yum, we are not far from C. S. Pierce' s meaning-laden semiotic triad: sign, signified, significans. In this restricted sense, signs are causally correlated with that which is signified. By contrast, the relation between the word "chair" and that which it signifies, and on which I am now sitting, is arbitrary. But can chemical signals in bacterial and plant and human communities be arbitrary from a chemical causal point of view? If so, can "mere chemicals" be signs in the full Piercean sense? Triplets of nucleotides in an RNA molecule stand for specific amino acids that will end up incorporated into a protein. The same is true of the transfer RNA where the anticodon site is distant from the amino acid binding site. In short, chemistry allows arbitrary organizations of control relations. It seems fully legitimate to assign the concepts of sign, signified, and significans to the genetic code. The calculus that is Claude Shannon' s elegant information theory has always been about reduction of uncertainty about the statistics of the source of a set of symbols. There is, however, just a hint of semantics in Shannon' s view that the semantics resides in the "decoder." The patterns of bowl drainage upon receipt of the binary string messages sent along the communication channel constitutes the decoding. If only the bacterium could tell us: "Did you see that truck of a paramecium coming at me? Thus, among other things, we must tell stories to understand the oriented actions of agents in their worlds. The semantics of the nail is some subset of this embroidered context-dependent set of implications of the event, or signal, in question to the autonomous agents in the coevolving system. Of course, there is a sense in which my attribution of semantics to autonomous agents is purely tautological. Stones and chairs are not, by my definition, autonomous agents. And the stunning fact directly before us, every day, is that autonomous agents do manipulate the world on their own behalf. Daniel Dennett, in his fine book Darwin' s Dangerous Idea, advances a hierarchy of forms of "knowing," if I may use that term, that have arisen in evolution by Darwinian means. I do not disagree, although I have placed far greater emphasis on the roles of self-organization in evolution. In its simplest version, the creature evolves by mutation, also recombination and natural selection. So one (or a colony or an ecosystem) of Darwinian creatures adapts more or less as Darwin told us. At the next level up, say, aplysia, a nervous system is present, and the creature is capable of stimulus-response learning, a la Pavlov. Indeed, aplysia can learn very simple conditioned stimuli the later analogue is the bell causing the dog to salivate in "expectation" of food. At the next level (Dennett, perhaps properly, reserves this for us vertebrates) is the Popperian creature. This allows us lucky Popperian creatures to allow our "hypotheses to die in our stead." This enlarged shared world gives us more know-how, and more know that. Who knows what new cultural forms will blossom? Chinese cooking lands in Cuba, and Cuban-Chinese cuisine is invented. Plants, as noted, are said to signal one another with complex secondary metabolites to characterize the particular kinds of insects infesting the glade. There are arbitrary structural relations between the metabolite and the insect, just as symbols in human language are often arbitrary with respect to the signified. We humans are just more gregarious with our vocal cords and e-mail, I guess. Slapstick comedy may have started a long time ago. Yuck or yum from my point of view if I am an autonomous agent. Hume told us long ago about the "naturalistic fallacy" : One cannot deduce "ought" from "is." From the fact that mothers care for their young, we cannot deduce that they ought to do so, Hume argued. From the fact that Hitler set out to conquer Europe and more and to kill Jewry, we cannot deduce that he ought to have done so. Indeed, Hume' s injunction underlies the caution of scientists about making ethical statements. You citizens across the globe can argue the ethics. But if Hume warns us not to deduce ought from is, where do values come from at all? The eorts following Hume to understand the meaning of ethical assertions have been long, twisted, arduous. Following the dictates of the logical positivists of the Vienna Circle that only those statements capable of verification were meaningful, philosophers as famous as G. E. Moore came to wonder if ethical assertions were merely emotive utterances. Thus "equality before the law" is one contract that Rawls commends to us. "Equality before the law" is far more refined than the yuck or yum of the bacterium. Too much yuck, this one and its progeny are gone from the future of the biosphere. And again without attributing consciousness, once an autonomous agent is around is the rudiment of intentionality present? If so, another cornerstone of ethical activity has been laid. Ethical behavior requires first the logical possibility of behavior for which one is responsible. You are not responsible for acts and eects beyond your control. To act ethically, you must first be able to act at all. Dan and I struggled that summer to make the distinction between the "doings" of an autonomous agent and mere happenings in and around the autonomous agent. Note we say the E. coli is swimming upstream in the glucose gradient to get dinner. What are actions and what are mere happenings? Strange and interesting, is it not, that these issues all seem to arise with autonomous agents but not otherwise? 