During the past weeks Europe and America witnessed the arrangement of important international conferences, which could on the one hand guarantee the peace and stability of the world, or could instead deteriorate the conditions. The second feature was that both conferences ended without effective result, and the decisions taken and resolutions adopted there lacked conclusiveness and were not operational. But paying heed was not tantamount to endorsement of the demand launched by those countries; rather, the final result came out as a compromise solution and a relative back up by the majority group. (It should be noted that the issues moved at the conference were declared unofficial and lacking validity [legal force] even for the participating countries.) [Sentences are as published] When Italian police intervened and roughly handled the demonstrations, things got out of hand; the already volatile situation reached boiling point, violent clashes broke out, and the killing of one protestor overshadowed all other issues. Regarding the American proposed Anti-Missile Defense System too, neither Russia, China, Japan, nor even the European Union, had shown any enthusiasm; rather they had all expressed their reserves on the project. Concerning the environmental protection issue, the emission of toxic and greenhouse gases, and warming up of the planet earth's climate too, which was somehow related to the [agenda of] Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol. Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well. Even the eagerness for playing an intermediary role in the Middle East crisis has given rise to fierce competition between America, European Union, and Russia and China. Jacques Chirac, the French President, responding to the protests leveled by opponents of globalization, had said: They have no right to present themselves as defenders of the world poor... Similarly, Gerhard Schroeder, the German Chancellor, too had claimed that the participants at the summit meeting were the true, legitimate, and elected representatives of the people of their countries. 