a brief History Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint silhouette of land. Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands, marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring. Around 7000 b.c. , the Phoenicians set out from what is now Iran to explore their surroundings. Obsidian is a hard, vitreous volcanic rock, which could be fashioned into tools for cutting and stabbing. The high quality of the seam on Milos ensured that the area remained popular with early travelers. Cycladic Culture At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the Cyclades islands. The distinctive, sculpted marble figures of the era are now being reproduced in vast quantities as souvenirs. You will find original examples in the archaeological museums throughout the Cyclades, although one of the earliest examples is in the museum on Paros. Santorini (Thira), the next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. Massive tidal waves swept over Crete, and other parts of the Mediterranean, smashing buildings and drowning many thousands of people. Their extensive military campaigns were later chronicled by Homer in his epic poems The Odyssey and The Iliad. The Rise of Athens The Dorians, who came overland from northern Europe, conquered the Mycenaeans. They held sway over islands off the northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual. However, Greece was not yet a country; each city-state was self-governing and autonomous. Homer wrote his epic works on Chios; and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos. Archaeology shows that, during this time, societies lived mainly in coastal trading towns with little settlement inland. The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly punished the islands that had turned against it. Following its victory, Athens introduced the concept of a mutual protection alliance (a kind of NATO of the ancient world). Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of Delos. Although there were minor internal wrangles, the league controlled the Aegean and the greater Athenian Empire for most of the fifth century b.c. In 431 b.c. , Athens began a war with its neighbor and league member Sparta. 330, however, when the newly converted Emperor Constantine made Byzantium, renamed Constantinople, capital of his Eastern Empire that Christianity was assured of its dominant role in future Greek life. The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by waves of invaders. While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands. To counter this, the populations moved from their homes on the coast and built settlements inland, out of sight of the raiding parties. The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco Sanudo on Naxos. The Coming of the Ottoman Turks The Ottomans were roving invaders who came from the east, taking land in what is now Turkey. In 1453, they took Constantinople, and immediately made it their capital, renaming it Istanbul. The Ottomans brought new influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean. Toward Greek Independence However, a movement was growing on the Greek peninsula against Ottoman rule and for an independent Greek state. In 1770, Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774. Lesvos, Chios, and Samos lay in the important shipping lanes, and patriots began disrupting Ottoman cargo traffic. In return, the Turks violently put down every insurrection, including the massacre on Chios, when 22,000 people were slaughtered. The Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the Dodecanese islands to the Italians. Following this debacle, the Ottomans then allied themselves to Germany in the World War I, losing more territory with the defeat of the Germans in that war. In 1923, Turkey broke away from the tired Ottoman rulers, and Kemal Ataturk rose to power on a wave of popular support. Many had to leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the Greek-ruled islands just offshore. Thousands of people arrived with little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the resources of the islands. Finally, Greece was ousted from its new territory in Asia Minor, which became part of the new Turkish state. Greece attempted to stay out of World War II, but Mussolini saw Greece as an ideal addition to his Italian empire. But the country was politically fragmented, with arguments between monarchists and republicans, right and left, and tension escalated into civil war. Even after the fighting stopped more than a decade later, the country was not stable. Many Greek islanders chose to leave rather than live in poverty and terror, and many made new homes in the United States and Australia. The EU has given large subsidies to develop Greece' s infrastructure and grants to excavate and protect its ancient monuments. 