C'wealth mission conduct questionable By A Special Correspondent - Britain's Prime Minister, Tony Blair, privately did two things concerning Zimbabwe during the recent retreat by Commonwealth leaders in Australia that raise questions about today's meeting in London by the troika of Australia, Nigeria and South Africa. But how could Blair have a Commonwealth report when no one else had received such a report that should be channeled through the Secretariat to all members, asked one of the other 53 Commonwealth leaders at the retreat? Blair's second faux pas in Australia, according to some of the assembled Commonwealth leaders, came in his response to a remarkably conciliatory speech by Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister, Dr Stan Mudenge. The Nigerian leader, President Olusegun Obasanjo, had urged the minister not to attack Blair frontally over Britain's negative position regarding Zimbabwe, but to deal with the presidential election preparations in a dispassionate and precise manner. Then Mudenge rose to his feet, strode over to Blair and thrust out his hand. But there was still an unanswered question in the minds of the Commonwealth leaders: How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe when they had not? On the spurious grounds that the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (Zanu-PF) election campaign centre was in an adjoining building, the Commonwealth observers moved out to the privately owned Meikles Hotel. There, unlike the Sheraton where the national newspaper The Herald is distributed to guests, the pro-opposition Daily News is given freely to guests. Furthermore, as anyone who has been following the Zimbabwean Press can testify, many of the Meikles farms around the country have been acquired by the State as part of the land reform programme. During the 2000 parliamentary elections, 80 rooms at Meikles Hotel were booked by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). But because of their openly hostile position towards the President and Government, the BBC was refused accreditation to cover the presidential election. These are some of the realities that Presidents Obasanjo of Nigeria and Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, confronted as they flew from Harare last night for their meeting in London tomorrow with the Australian leader who is the third member of the Commonwealth troika. Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki, however, have the benefit of their own observer missions to Zimbabwe as well as the support of the vast majority of the Commonwealth. 