Although diplomatic overtures to express official objections have not yet been made, the government through the National Space and Flight Agency has already warned of the possible risks facing Indonesia. The memory Russia's Mir space station which after 15 years fell to earth on 23 March 2001 is still fresh of. Fortunately shrapnel from the former space station, which measured 33 x 30 x 27 metres and weighed 137 tonnes, burned up as it re-entered the earth's atmosphere somewhere over the Pacific Ocean between Chile and Australia. Nevertheless, intact pieces of debris weighing up to 20 to 30 tonnes fell into the Pacific Ocean. Cosmos 1402 in January 1978 fell over the Northern Hemisphere and Cosmos 954, which contained radioactive substances, crashed above the uninhabited tundra of Canada in September 1977. At such close proximity, if bilateral relations with Australia were to take a turn for the worse, firing at Indonesia would be extremely easy. Notwithstanding the above, in reality only three of the 15 launch pad centres worldwide are located near the Equator - Kourou, San Marco and Sriharikota. But the famous US space centre, the Kennedy Space Centre at Cape Canaveral in Florida is located relatively far from the Equator. Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections. The main convention is the UN Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, 28 March 1972, known as the 1972 Liability Convention. The Convention also sets out various claims that can be made by states who have suffered damages as a result of other states' space projects. This principle means that the burden of proof that the claimant state has suffered damages does not lie on the state submitting its damages claim. But in conversation with Kompas on Sunday (17 Mar), one of Indonesia's few space law experts, Prof Dr Priyatna Abdurrasyid, expressed a different opinion. If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities. In claiming compensation from the Soviet Union over Cosmos 954, Canada was forced to navigate numerous procedural complications. Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities. The Space Treaty 1967 obliges launching states to open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states in all its activities. The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes, Priyatna said. 