Harare, March 17 (XINHUA) -- Despite Western pressure on him over his re-election victory, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe was sworn in on Sunday as the country's head of state to serve another six-year term. With a 21-gun salute sounding and four fighter jets sweeping overhead, the colorful inauguration took place amid thunderous applause by thousands of ruling party supporters. Zimbabwe's top judge, who was dressing in British-style scarlet and black robes and shoulder-length horsehair judicial wigs, bedecked Mugabe with a red sash of office. I, Robert Gabriel Mugabe do swear that I will be faithful to the laws of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God, said Mugabe who was flanked by first lady Grace. Mugabe, who is from the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF), won last weekend's presidential election by polling 1,685,212 against his closest rival Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) who polled 1,262,401 votes. In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program. He told thousands of cheering supporters that land reforms must proceed with greater speed and strength to shore up the economy, badly battered by years of political instability. We want to make sure that blacks play a meaningful role in the economy, and we will do that through the land reforms, said Mugabe. In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980. Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was transparent, credible, free and fair. South African President Thabo Mbeki and President Olusegun Obasanjo are expected in Harare Monday for talks with the Zimbabwean leader on a possible government of national unity. The two, along with Australian Prime Minister John Howard, are members of a Commonwealth panel charged with assessing the election and recommending possible action by the group against Zimbabwe. The European Union (EU) and the US have joined the opposition in alleging the election was neither free nor fair and threatened more sanctions on Zimbabwe. 