Views on big issues unknown Thomas' views on the other major issues remain unknown, although the 1990 confirmation hearing for his seat on the Court of Appeals was widely viewed on Capitol Hill and in ideological interest groups as a rehearsal for a Supreme Court nomination. Three years ago, the Senate denied confirmation to Judge Robert Bork despite having voted to confirm him only a few years earlier to the same court on which Thomas now sits. (box) 1981-'82: assistant secretary for civil rights, Education Department (box) 1982-'90: chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (box) 1990-: U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Source: Who's Who Among Black Americans WHAT'S NEXT? Clint Bolick, vice president of the Institute for Justice in Washington and a close friend of Judge Thomas, says that the weekend hearings will deepen his sympathy for victims and will reconfirm his very strong belief in individual rights. The bitter battle over Judge Thomas's treatment of Anita Hill has pushed a relatively obscure case called Franklin vs. Gwinnett County (Ga.) into the limelight because it involves sexual harassment. The issue that dominated the first round of Judge Thomas's hearings last month, was abortion-the most contentious issue before the court. Democrats questioned Judge Thomas's credibility when he insisted not only that he didn't have an opinion on Roe vs. Wade, the abortion-rights landmark Supreme Court decision, but also that he had never discussed the 1973 case. There are no cases involving press freedoms on the court's docket and Judge Thomas has had very limited First Amendment experience, a gap that gave the American Bar Association reservations about the nominee. In the end, some critics of Judge Thomas worry that his recent experiences will send him onto the court as an embittered man bent on revenge against his perceived tormentors. This doesn't mean that the American people support Judge Thomas -- or Robert Bork or Ronald Reagan -- in every detail of their political beliefs. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, said the Senate Judiciary Committee, in confirming four justices without learning how they felt about abortion, has given them a free ride and should be tougher in ferreting out Thomas' views. I will not support yet another Reagan-Bush Supreme Court nominee who remains silent on a woman's right to choose, and then ascends to the court to weaken that right, said Metzenbaum, the only member of the Judiciary Committee who voted against Thomas' nomination to the Circuit Court of Appeals to the District of Columbia. The background of Judge Clarence Thomas is less important than his views and what they mean to protecting our constitutional rights, said Sen. (box) 1981-'82: assistant secretary for civil rights, Education Department (box) 1982-'90: chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (box) 1990-: U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Source: Who's Who Among Black Americans There, in the segregated black Georgia of four decades past, began the toughening of Clarence Thomas, nominee to the United States Supreme Court. From these roots, he might have become one of any number of bright, activist black men to rise out of Southern poverty and press a politically aggressive liberal agenda of civil rights and affirmative action -- as did men like Thurgood Marshall, the retiring justice whose Supreme Court seat Thomas might take. Nomination Of Clarence Thomas President Bush has chosen Judge Clarence Thomas of the U.S. Court of Appeals to replace Justice Thurgood Marshall, who is retiring from the Supreme Court. Feminist groups have been in the forefront of the liberal coalition opposing Thomas, warning that his vote added to an already conservative Supreme Court could overturn federal protection for abortion rights and send the issue back to state legislatures. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said: To give the benefit of the doubt to Judge Thomas is to say that Judge Thomas is more important than the Supreme Court. Thomas will succeed retired Justice Thurgood Marshall, the first black justice and the Supreme Court's last link to the liberal Warren Court of the 1950s and 1960s. While liberals will focus on Judge Thomas's legal inexperience, his record on the bench doesn't present them with the sort of target they had with the articulated, sharply conservative legal views of Robert Bork, whose Supreme Court nomination was defeated in 1987. As other Supreme Court nominees have done, however, Judge Thomas is likely to go to great lengths to avoid committing himself on abortion, an issue that is expected to come before the court again and again. As a child, Judge Thomas said, I could not dare dream that I would ever see the Supreme Court, not to mention be nominated to it. Judge Thomas, who just turned 43 last week, would be the youngest Supreme Court justice of the past 100 years with the exception of William O. Douglas, who joined the court when he was 40. Anita Hill The University of Oklahoma law professor began this with confidential allegations that Judge Thomas had subjected her to sexual harassment when she served as his personal assistant at the Education Department. She has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired. President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment? Howell Heflin, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, is a conservative Democrat who waffled on the Thomas nomination and then opposed it, criticizing the nominee's evasiveness and suggesting he might be a right-wing ideologue. And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, he can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas. The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination. 