     "They're going to begin dying like bloody flies," said Ed Rist, head of
CARE's East Africa unit. "I don't think we've seen anything quite like this.";
   Even as Africa slips into what could become the worst human disaster in its
history, there is debate about whether the United States should aggressively
intervene or offer assistance with political conditions attached.;    And a
spate of disasters worldwide is sending attention and humanitarian aid
elsewhere.;    In Latin America, more than 160,000 cholera cases have been
reported, including 1,203 deaths. On the Turkey-Iraq border, thousands of
Kurdish families still bury their dead and struggle to survive.;    In
Bangladesh, rescue workers continue to find drowned babies lashed to uprooted
trees, tied on by parents who wanted to protect their young from the cyclone
that devastated the country.;    "Interest in a disaster is contingent on
media coverage," said Alex deWaal, associate director of London-based Africa
Watch. "It's become a bit of a circus. When there is coverage, politicians
take an active interest and it becomes a policy issue. You're not seeing that
coverage in Africa yet.";    Other famines there, most recently in the mid-
and late 1980s, focused the attention of Westerners with the media's shocking
images of the crisis, including skeletal children suckling at their mothers'
dry breasts.;    Such photos of the current crisis are hard to come by because
of the lack of media coverage.;    "By the time we see the kind of pictures
that would motivate people to act, it will be too late," said Peter Laugharn,
coordinator for Save the Children's Horn of Africa program.;    Already,
however, hundreds of Africans in Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia may be on the
verge of death by starvation, relief workers say. Because of internal
government opposition, civil war and an undeveloped infrastructure, delivering
food supplies and obtaining accurate numbers are difficult and sometimes
impossible, they say.;    "We know there are places almost out of food," said
Rist.;    Just as the need is exploding, however, resources of relief programs
such as CARE are decreasing, according to reports from the General Accounting
Office and the Committee on Refugees.;    The United States remains the
world's biggest aid donor, contributing more than $250 million last year. And
some in Congress are trying to guarantee that money and the supplies it buys
get to their proper destination.;    A comprehensive hunger bill, for example,
was introduced by Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, chairman of the Select Committee on
Hunger. The bill would make it a human rights violation to use food as a
weapon, said a staff member. It would authorize U.N. intervention if a country
blocked aid from its population. Several African governments, including Sudan,
have been accused in the past of doing just that.;    Human rights violations
outlined in reports by Africa Watch and Amnesty International have led some
people to suggest that the United States and United Nations should attach
conditions to humanitarian aid. Otherwise, they say, food often is given to
soldiers, who in turn keep oppressive governments in power.;    Although
officials at the Agency for International Development won't confirm it, relief
workers say the agency diverted a shipment of food from Mozambique until the
country promised the food would be delivered to its hungry population instead
of to the army.  
