11. that the united states is compelled, through the unpreparedness of its allies, to conduct this fight in its military dimension almost single-handedly, should be a cause for soul-searching gratitude among those allies, hardly the resentment we have so often seen. to be fair, so far as truth can be discerned from polls, the free western world is indeed grateful, and on balance quite supportive of the cause the americans are leading. where there are not even polls, in the tyrannies of the middle east, of africa and asia, there is occasional evidence of the respect that the united states can command -- the belief that for all its flaws, the united states remains the champion of freedom. and while the conventional and verbal anti-americanism is in a different league from the terrorist strikes -- closer to hypocrisy than to murderous hatred -- i think the two are animated by a common cause: a cause to be sought in the murk of the individual human soul, not in the externals of political argument. again and again, i have discovered it is a simple prejudice, rather than a product of comprehensive reasoning: for the charges brought against those damn yankees shift loosely between the u.s. polity and people, and are no sooner effectively rebutted than more charges come forward in their place. almost five months later, i feel more certain that my analysis was essentially right: we must look to moral rather than political causes to understand this natural antipathy that so much of the planet shares. ( yes, that was horrible... but we have to realize why the americans are so hated. ) it was no surprise to me, though a surprise to others, to find both right-wing tabloids and left-wing pundits joining the fray in europe over what i have come to call, facetiously, the gitmo gandhis to see the speed with which even mildly conservative fellow-canadians jumped to the conclusion that the united states was mistreating its hostages, and wilfully ignoring geneva conventions that few had ever read. 