First, his foreign trade minister, Annemie Neyts, has to create the right climate. This is no blind violence but rather targeted violence, Annemie Neyts said referring to the antiglobalist movement that set Gothenburg and Genoa, among other cities, ablaze. However, the movement is more than that. The protest movement is colored by leftist ideology. Neyts, who has also been presiding the Liberal [free market-oriented] The current protest movement is still in a phase that we called contestation in 1968. Neyts noticed this while reading the local press in Kenya, where she has recently been on a holiday, and in Morocco. Neyts is convinced that gaining access to development is a much more complex phenomenon than is generally accepted. It is reassuring to believe that the Tobin tax [on speculative capital movements] will stimulate development, but there is more to it. Neyts is a resolute defender of world trade and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Trade alone will not save the world, Neyts said, but in as far as it refers to the free exchange of products and movement of persons, it constitutes an important factor for economic development. The WTO is accused of fostering trade anarchy. The WTO seeks to do exactly the contrary. Neyts understands that developing countries may feel uneasy about the kind of trade negotiations that are conducted at WTO level. However, the WTO should not be loaded with all the world's sins. There is not one developing country that wants to link social regulations to WTO regulations. Neyts rejects all forms of violence, but understands the protests. Therefore, it is a positive development that all 'summits' will be held in Brussels as of 2003, Neyts said. According to Neyts, many initiatives to alleviate discontent have recently been taken. The Belgian delegation to the WTO negotiations will include nongovernmental organizations. To do this, regulations and a structure like the WTO are needed. Otherwise, what will happen is that existing trade blocks will grow stronger. 