In praise of those 'damn Yankees' Author: David Warren WASHINGTON - On the face of things, it is hard to see how any reasonable person could object to the war the United States is now waging against international terrorism and terrorist regimes. 11. That the United States is compelled, through the unpreparedness of its allies, to conduct this fight in its military dimension almost single-handedly, should be a cause for soul-searching gratitude among those allies, hardly the resentment we have so often seen. To be fair, so far as truth can be discerned from polls, the free Western world is indeed grateful, and on balance quite supportive of the cause the Americans are leading. Potential terrorists may well be concealed among them, but for the great majority, it is common knowledge that the United States is a land of freedom and opportunity -- the preferred destination of the world's emigrants for the better part of the past two centuries. The many thousand generously funded U.S. universities are magnets for young literates from every culture. This man, who advanced a mendacious critique of Orientalism, is himself a product of the scholarship he demeaned; and is able to command audiences in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East because of his success in America. Again and again, I have discovered it is a simple prejudice, rather than a product of comprehensive reasoning: for the charges brought against those damn Yankees shift loosely between the U.S. polity and people, and are no sooner effectively rebutted than more charges come forward in their place. In the column I wrote on the very day of the September catastrophe, I touched upon the envy of America, which I believed to be its root cause. In the words of one, I can't believe anyone would sacrifice themselves and many others over something as petty as envy. Voices stilled by horror in the wake of the terror attacks on America, resumed their anti-American tirade when the United States took action in Afghanistan, and recently raised the pitch over the prisoners issue at Guantanamo Bay. Let me pause only briefly to allow that America is imperfect, like all earthly things; that its governments and people have committed many sins; that might does not make right; that power and wealth are not good in themselves; that goodness, truth and beauty may be found in every country and town. Let us even, sometimes, expect more from people born to every earthly advantage, and sometimes less from those born without. The mistake is to assume that envy is something so petty. 