Venezuela's Chief Forced to Resign; Civilian Installed CARACAS, Venezuela, April 12 - A transitional government headed by a leading businessman replaced President Hugo Chavez today, hours after military officers forced him to resign. Mr. Chavez, 47, a firebrand populist who had said he would remake Venezuela to benefit the poor, was obligated to resign in a meeting with three military officers about 3 a.m. today after large street protests on Thursday in which at least 14 people were killed by gunmen identified as his supporters. Officials portrayed the ouster as a victory for democracy, even though Mr. Chavez was a legitimately elected president. The Chavez government, he added, suppressed a peaceful demonstration and fired on unarmed protesters. Mr. Carmona, the president of Fedeca-iras, a business association, said early today that Mr. Chavez had presented his resignation. He spoke flanked by military officers who had rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night, the third day of a general strike called by his opponents. The interim government quickly moved to undo Mr. Chavez's policies, dissolving the National Assembly controlled by his supporters, firing members of the Supreme Court and changing the country's official name back to the Republic of Venezuela. Mr. Chavez had renamed the country the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. While pledging to hold presidential elections within 365 days, officials said that Mr. Carmona, who had been a leader in the protest movement against Mr. Chavez, will not be able to run. Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night. Mr. Chavez had fired Mr. Lameda in February and appointed a left-leaning ally in his place along with five board members close to his government, enraging thousands of office workers at the company. President Fidel Castro and Mr. Chavez had formed a close friendship. Rodr?ez, also said Mr. Chavez had not resigned, but was forced out by military officers. American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations and other media outlets that continued to function despite government orders to shut down. Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr. Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim government of responsibility in the shootings. He promised that they would receive government benefits. Chavez was right about the problems he saw in Venezuela. 