The UN International Conference on Financing for Development opened in Monterrey on 18 March (Telam photo) Monterrey, Mexico--Choked, hushed voices, some of them astounded, are not guessing correctly about the dilemma of the chicken or the egg into which the Argentine crisis has become converted, almost grotesquely: will the International Monetary Fund (IMF) endorse concrete aid to the country, apart from the presumable good intentions of its board members and technicians, without the approval of George W. Bush? Certainly not, was the comment made in a private dialogue with La Nacion by a diplomatic source from the United States who, with a legion of colleagues, is attending the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development that opened yesterday in Monterrey, Mexico. Apparently not in Monterrey, where Bush will have a full agenda, and without contacts with other chief executives, except for Mexico's President Vicente Fox, and Canada's Prime Minister Jean Chretien, since they are trading partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Well, one never knows, slipped in the source, becoming lost on an escalator. Eduardo Duhalde's agenda, during his first departure from the country since he assumed the presidency, calls for a key meeting on Friday with the IMF's managing director, Horst Koehler, (which he will attend accompanied by Economy Minister Jorge Remes Lenicov), and two occasions on which he will have the floor, addressing the world (for five minutes on one, and three minutes on the other) concerning the topic under discussion; the Monterrey Consensus: or greater assistance from the developed countries to those that are underdeveloped, which in fact will be approved by consensus. The source commented: Argentine is in a position to be an alternative reference point for the United States, to the detriment of Brazil which, in view of the internal and external vicissitudes facing Fernando Henrique Cardoso, is, day by day, becoming somewhat weak. With 58 chief executives immersed in signing a document which, as La Nacion was told by the Argentine ambassador to the United Nations, Arnoldo Listre, gives a clue to the direction in which we are heading: It shows a new organization in which the market economy is accepted as a fundamental factor for development and, unlike the cold war, is rid of the North-South confrontation. According to some sources, the crisis is in a bind: the IMF is asking for more belt-tightening, and the government is asking for more money. A source from the United Nations observed ironically: If Chile were Iraq, and if President Ricardo Lagos were Saddam Hussein, Argentina would have Bush's full support. 