We have lacked a physical definition of an autonomous agent, able to manipulate the universe on its own behalf the egret whose foreboding of winter leads to lifted wing and steady, powerful flight. But autonomous agents, we who do daily manipulate the world on our own behalf, we to whom "intentionality" and "purpose" are so inevitably attributed by our common languages, we are, by my definition of autonomous agents, also nothing but physical systems with a peculiar organization of processes and properties. If the concept of autonomous agents were something like a useful or more, a proper definition of life itself, then autonomous agents span the gap from the merely physical to that new realm of the merely physical where "purpose" is ascribed by all of us to one another. Semantics enters with purpose. I hope my definition of an autonomous agent is useful, an autocatalytic system carrying out a work cycle, now rather broadened by the realization that autonomous agents also do often detect and measure and record displacements of external systems from equilibrium that can be used to extract work, then do extract work, propagating work and constraint construction, from their environment. I want to say that the autonomous agents comprising that community had, individually and collectively, the embodied know-how to get on with making a living in the natural games that constituted their world. Indeed, as I have emphasized before, a biosphere is a self-consistent coconstruction of autonomous agents, ways of making a living, and the search procedures, mutation, recombination, as well as behavioral search open to autonomous agents. Those means of making a living that were well searched out and mastered by the agents and their search procedures became the kinds of "jobs" that were widely filled, the abundant niches of the bio-sphere. There is in this whole self-constructing system a wider know-how, beyond the know-how of any single autonomous agent spinning eagerly in its microenvironment. There is no autonomous agent, no one, who knows how the whole system works, any more than anyone at present knows how the global economic system works in its myriad interactions, deals, steals, hopes, and frustrations. What in the world is "know-how" ? Philosophers distinguish between "know-how" and "know that." "Know that" concerns propositions, most conveniently, human propositions. "Know that" brings with it the standard and nonstandard issues of the truth or falseness of propositions as they report states of the world. Perhaps higher primates who are trained to manipulate simple symbols with apparent reference to the world also can "know that" with respect to propositions. Unlike "know that," "know-how" does not involve propositions about the world. "Know-how" involves procedural knowledge about how to get on in the world. Does a bacterium know how to make a living in its world? Thank God for know-how. But any autonomous agent proliferating alone or in a congery of other agents, it would seem, is also graced by the selfsame know-how. If we synthesize autonomous agents in the next decades and they coevolve under our rapt gaze over months or years into a modestly complex ecosystem brimming with novel life forms, they too will know how to make a living in their mutually created world plus the boundary conditions we more or less intelligently impose on them. The know-how is, in these terms, nothing but another view of the propagating closures of catalysis, work tasks, sensing, recording, and acting that we now recognize as inherent in the doings of autonomous agents. The know-how is not outside that propagating organization. The know-how is the propagating organization. Semantics All of which brings us, inevitably, to the brink of semantics. An incoming molecular species arriving in the interior of an autonomous agent really is (i) food; (ii) poison; (iii) a signal; (iv) neutral; (v) something else. Once there is an autonomous agent, there is a semantics from its privileged point of view. The incoming molecule is "yuck" or "yum." I think the major conceptual step to yuck or yum is unavoidable once there is an autonomous agent. If yum, then there will probably be more of this type of agent, osprings of the first. Once yuck and yum, we are not far from C. By contrast, the relation between the word "chair" and that which it signifies, and on which I am now sitting, is arbitrary. I believe it is clear that mere chemistry in an autonomous agent can harbor symbols and signs in the full senses of the words. It seems legitimate to extend that notion to much of the subtle signaling, chemical and otherwise, within and between autonomous agents, as exemplified by plants that upon infestation by a particular insect secrete a secondary metabolite chemical that "warns" other members of the same species that an insect infestation is happening and to turn on defensive anti-insect secondary metabolites. There is, however, just a hint of semantics in Shannon' s view that the semantics resides in the "decoder." I cannot buy Shannon' s view unless the decoder is an autonomous agent. If not, then the decoder merely transforms a bit string sent along a communication channel into some other discrete or continuous dynamics perhaps a set of water-filled bowls is drained by turning on a machine that opens valves between the bowls and to the outside world in particular ways. But if the recipient is an autonomous agent such as a bacterium and the incoming molecule is a symbol-sign of a paramecium or an amoeba on the roam and the bacterium swims away and avoids becoming dinner, that sequence of events seems laden with semantics. If only the bacterium could tell us: "Did you see that truck of a paramecium coming at me? Thus, among other things, we must tell stories to understand the oriented actions of agents in their worlds. The semantics of the yuck or yum coming into a simple autonomous agent say, an early bacterium is somehow linked with the embodied know-how of that agent in making a living, or failing to make a living, in its world. The semantics of an event is some subset of the fully embroidered, context-dependent set of causal implications of the event, or signal, in question. The semantics of the nail is some subset of this embroidered context-dependent set of implications of the event, or signal, in question to the autonomous agents in the coevolving system. It seems hard to ascribe purpose, in the sense of acting on its own behalf, to a stone or a chair and easy with respect to an alga. Of course, there is a sense in which my attribution of semantics to autonomous agents is purely tautological. After all, I began by stating that a bacterium swimming upstream in the glucose gradient was acting on its own behalf in an environment, defined an autonomous agent as a physical system able to act on its own behalf, then asked what a physical system must be such that it can act on its own behalf. Now, five chapters later, it is hardly an independent deduction that autonomous agents are the proposed organization of matter, energy, and organization to which purposes can be ascribed in the sense of being able to act on their own behalf. On the other hand, while the definition is circular, like F = MA and Darwin' s "natural selection" and "fitness," that does not mean that the set of codefined concepts surrounding my definition of an autonomous agent as a reproducing system that does a work cycle fails to touch the real world. Stones and chairs are not, by my definition, autonomous agents. And the stunning fact directly before us, every day, is that autonomous agents do manipulate the world on their own behalf. In short, once we have autonomous agents and yuck and yum, it appears that semantics enters the universe as the agents coevolve and behave on their own behalf with one another in the unfolding of a biosphere. A simple autonomous agent, say, a bacterium, is a Darwinian creature. Popperian creatures, in Dennett' s fine phrase, have "internal models" of their world and can "run the internal model" with the clutch disengaged, rather than running the model in real time in the real world. Dennett makes the wonderful argument that we utilize our tools literally stone knives, arrows, digging sticks, machine tools to enlarge our shared world of facts and processes. This enlarged shared world gives us more know-how, and more know that. I very much like Dennett' s ladder of know-how, and eventual know that. The image is not too far from how it is imagined that "idiotype" and "anti-idiotype" immune networks work to sustain synthesis of a set of desired antibodies against an incoming pathogen. Does a whi of ethical issue arise with autonomous agents? Yuck or yum from my point of view if I am an autonomous agent. Thus "equality before the law" is one contract that Rawls commends to us. "Equality before the law" is far more refined than the yuck or yum of the bacterium. I will content myself with wondering where "value" and the rudiments of "intentionality" come from in the physical universe in the first place and leave social contracts for other eorts. Where is the place of value in a world of fact? While fully aware of Hume' s injunction, I think that from the autonomous agent' s perspective, yuck or yum is primary, unavoidable, and of the deepest importance to that agent. Without attributing consciousness to an E. coli, or an autonomous agent we may create in the near future, I cannot help but feel that the rudiments of value are present once autonomous agents are around. And again without attributing consciousness, once an autonomous agent is around is the rudiment of intentionality present? Dan and I struggled that summer to make the distinction between the "doings" of an autonomous agent and mere happenings in and around the autonomous agent. But I sense that the distinction between doings and happenings, Dan' s happy phrasing, is relevant for E. coli, tigers, us, trees, and autonomous agents in general. Strange and interesting, is it not, that these issues all seem to arise with autonomous agents but not otherwise? Granted that we here seem to confront the language game circularity alluded to earlier, yet I do truly think that the rudiments of semantics, intentionality, value, and ethics arise with autonomous agents. We cannot deduce ought from is in any concrete context, but I think we have the categories of ought and is in the physical universe once we have autonomous agents. 