Argentina's Chaos Raises New Doubts on Monetary Fund WASHINGTON, Dec. 21 - The deadly riots in Argentina, the collapse of its government and another multibillion dollar bailout gone awry have raised fresh questions about the effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund and the financial policies of the United States, the fund's leading shareholder. Latin American and European government leaders today joined protesters in Buenos Aires, Wall Street traders and financial experts in putting at least part of the blame for Argentina's problems on the lending agency and the Clinton and Bush administrations. Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give new aid to Argentina early this month, as the country's economic program, designed with I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful austerity measures on its citizens. Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today that the fund bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting inconsistent policies that were at turns passive and inflexible. The French, who like the United States are significant fund shareholders, have called on the lending agency to step up its involvement to help Argentina recover. When Argentina's crisis worsened in recent weeks, Bush administration officials did not take a firm position, allowing the I.M.F. to make the call on withholding additional loans, people involved in the fund's deliberations said. Even the harshest critics of the I.M.F. put most of the blame for Argentina's current plight on a succession of governments in Buenos Aires. But many say the monetary fund should have called government officials to account sooner. Argentina also fell into a deep recession four years ago. But he argued that by delaying, the fund helped Argentina dig itself into a deeper hole. But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and the Bush administration to continue the aid program in August, when he said the situation in Argentina had likely deteriorated beyond repair. Mr. Mussa acknowledged that even when the political and economic situation in Argentina was more stable, a move to delay debt payments or devalue the currency ran the risk of rattling financial markets and even causing a financial implosion in the region. Moreover, it is difficult to place blame for Argentina's economic program squarely on the fund when much of the policy was designed by Argentina itself, sometimes over the objections of the fund's economists. At an August meeting at I.M.F. headquarters, fund officials told Domingo Cavallo, Argentina's economy minister, that the country would be better off delaying debt payments. The fund decided to suspend aid for a program that appeared to have little chance of success. Fund officials say privately that they cannot avoid financial bailouts altogether. 