Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections. The main convention is the UN Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, 28 March 1972, known as the 1972 Liability Convention. The Convention also sets out various claims that can be made by states who have suffered damages as a result of other states' space projects. Indonesia at the very least needs to sign the UN Convention on Space as well as ratify several other treaties governing national activities in outer space. These UN Conventions are the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies 1967 (Space Treaty 1967), the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects 1972 (Liability Convention 1972), and finally, the Convention on Registration of Objections launched into Outer Space 1974 (Registration Convention 1974). This convention only applies to space objects that fall into Indonesian sovereign territory. It is sufficient at law to demonstrate the fact of the damage caused as a result of the space object identified as belonging to the launching state or a state that has participated in the space object launching. A National Space and Flight Agency working paper suggest a high degree of difficulty if Indonesia, as a state that has suffered damage, were to lodge a damages claim. In the case of objections to the Christmas Island space station, Indonesia would need to be able to show that damage that has occurred within its territorial area was caused by space objects launched from the Christmas Island station. It would suffice to submit a claim to the UN Claims Commission and state that the space debris in Indonesia had originated from the Australian space centre. Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]. Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities. The Space Treaty 1967 obliges launching states to open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states in all its activities. The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes, Priyatna said. The basic principles of the Space Treaty 1967 oblige Australia as the launching state to open the possibility of humanitarian cooperation in the field of space endeavour. Australia is not allowed to prevent other states who want to cooperate on its space centre. Indonesia can exploit this principle of the Space Treaty 1967. These principles are upheld in the Space Treaty 1967. 