Already, Washington's refusal to grant them official prisoner-of- war status has sparked protests from human rights groups, and a disagreement with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), which oversees the Geneva Conventions. Rather, it appears to be sidestepping the conventions in order to craft an unusual legal strategy that will enable it to try Al Qaeda suspects in special US military tribunals. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told re- porters that we do plan to, for the most part, treat them in a manner that is reasonably consistent with the Geneva Conventions, to the extent that they are appropriate. That description severely reduces the rights that the men would have as POWs under the Geneva Conventions, and prompted a rebuttal from the International Red Cross. Under the third Geneva Convention, prisoners of war may only be tried in the same courts and according to the same rules, as soldiers of the country that is holding the prisoners. That would give the prisoners the right to a three-tier appeal system reaching possibly to the Supreme Court. This is one reason why the Americans are nervous about applying the POW convention in all its glory, says Adam Roberts, an expert on international law at Oxford University in England, and editor of Documents on the Laws of War. US officials say that the foreign prisoners captured in Afghanistan are not covered by the third Geneva Convention because they were bands of people that I don't think would meet the criteria of organized military activity, as Pentagon spokeswoman Susan Hanson put it. Human rights organizations, however, have raised questions about the prisoners' housing conditions, which according to the Geneva Convention should be the same standard of those enjoyed by their guards. Under the Geneva Conventions, POWs must be returned home at the end of the war. I don't think anything quite like this was envisioned when the Geneva Conventions were drawn up, says Tom Farer, dean of Denver University's Graduate School of International Studies and a former special assistant to the Defense Department's special counsel. 