In the United States, on 14 February President Bush presented the US national climate protection program. It should be remembered that after Bush described the Kyoto Protocol as fundamentally flawed international negotiations on climate protection almost collapsed. The United States, the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases (25 percent of global emissions) withdrew from an international agreement that, for the first time, set binding targets for developed countries for climate protection. Unfortunately, the recent US climate protection program falls far short of meeting such expectations. The warnings by climate experts went unheeded in the US climate protection program. At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change, that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol. If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future. US reticence is not therefore a reason for us to reduce our climate protection efforts. The dominant role of the European climate protection policy has benefits for our economy. By implementing our European and national climate protection programs we will succeed in creating several hundred thousand new jobs by 2010. We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society. The door remains wide open for the United States to return to the Kyoto process: The biggest emitter of greenhouse gases cannot be relieved of its responsibilities for global climate protection. 