Norway should be in the forefront of combating climate problems. The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year, Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. According to the United Nations' climate panel, in the next 10 to 20 years changes in the climate will be almost unaffected by what we do in the way of initiatives in the next few years to reduce emissions of climate gases. The climate changes will be different from region to region. Will climate changes produce new types of pests that will create problems? All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. Even if developing countries have contributed to these climate problems to just a slight degree, they will nevertheless bear the greatest burden. Norway and other industrialized countries, on the other hand, have fairly good prospects of grappling with climate changes because we have an economy to put necessary measures to work. In the Sem statement the coalition government warned of a more offensive climate policy. An offensive climate police will bring costs with it. The elements in a more offensive climate policy are: Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005. Pursue the international climate negotiations. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. There exists the potential for significant reductions in climate gas emissions in Norway that will not produced with today's resources. A quota is a right to emit a certain quantity of climate gases during a certain period and this right can be sold on a market. Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions. Many countries, among them Denmark, Great Britain, and Sweden, are already under way developing early quota systems. The possibility of cooperating with other countries' early quota systems. Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. This gives us a special responsibility in climate policy-not least vis-a-vis the poorest countries. 