Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House officials said last night. The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. It would use $4.6 billion in tax credits over the next five years to encourage companies and individuals to limit those emissions. On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Last night, administration officials called the voluntary approach on climate the most reasonable path for the time being. Under the administration's proposed target, the growth rate of emissions of carbon dioxide would drop nearly 18 percent by 2012 - to 151 metric tons for each $1 million in gross domestic product, from the current level of 183 metric tons. One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their emissions of greenhouse gases. The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required levels. There would be no similar limits on power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. In the face of lobbying from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea. It may not be what everyone wants, but it recognizes that the Senate is going to deal with climate on its power plant bill. 