Becoming a captive after being defeated in a war apparently is bad, but being not treated as a prisoner of war [POW] is even worse. Besides, he said, each prisoner has a Koran and can even receive a mat for prayer. While these foods are strange to the prisoners, the United States has indeed abided by the dietary rules that Muslims have to follow. Of course, there is clean water for the prisoners to drink. Under the request of organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media, the United States let them go to Guantanamo to inspect the situation of the detainees there. Thus, the prisoners' living conditions in that day were basically transparent. If the above reports were true, then the treatment for the prisoners would be beyond reproach. Certain American people also maintain that the US way of treating the prisoners is not reproachable. Christopher, a physician working in the prisoners' camp, said: We really treat them well. A medium has this description for the Guantanamo prisoners' camp: The 2.5-square meter cement cell is way below the standards of cells built for American prisoners. The prisoners, dressed in orange one-piece overall, are hand-cuffed. A British newspaper maintains that the X-ray prison camp in Guantanamo is full of cruelties and torture. Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed. US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees. But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs. Now that these prisoners are in its hands, it is not likely that the US Government will let them off easily. If it chooses to characterize these detainees as POWs, then it must release some of them sooner or later and it is very likely that these people will again attack the United States with terrorist means. These prisoners not only are citizens of the belligerent country, but also are citizens of nonbelligerent countries, even citizens of the United States' allies, such as Britain. Therefore, on the issue of defining these prisoners' status, the United States must test the attitudes of the international community, especially the attitudes of European countries. The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners. If the United States insisted that these prisoners are to be tried at a military tribunal, it is almost certain that they will be sentenced to death. This is the first time in war history that terrorists have become war prisoners. What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions. Without a doubt, the United States' willfulness is what has greatly annoyed some countries and international organizations. If the United States chooses to disregard the Geneva Convention the way it follows this time, the legality and sanctity of international law will be substantially reduced. The United States is one of the signatories. The current treatment for the detainees: The prisoners were brought to the prisons in a brutal manner. Each prisoner is interned in a cell that is 2.5 square meters in size. The prisoners' hands and feet are shackled. The prisoners in the orange one-piece overall not only cannot move freely, but they may not be able to breathe normally. One military tribunal will try these prisoners. Reprisal against the prisoners of war shall be prohibited. 