It is not enough to proclaim, even in the Constitution, that one peso is worth one dollar, for that to be really the case. The linking to the dollar, as a guarantee of stability, was meant to rid them of the hyperinflation running at 2000 percent a year they had experienced during the 1970s and 80s. Introducing the currency board system in 1991 obliged the central bank to guarantee the pesos in circulation with foreign currency reserves, in the same way as issuing bodies used to only issue notes to the equivalent of the gold reserves they held. Hence the official parity between the peso and the dollar until 1 December 2001 when it became necessary to introduce exchange controls with a devastating effect. The fall came in 1998, when Brazil, made vulnerable by the Asian crisis, abandoned its fixed parity against the dollar. Other countries live on a currency board system, most notably Hong Kong. Second paradox: The self-proclaimed parity between the peso and the dollar never enabled the government and even less private borrowers to obtain credit terms to match those enjoyed by the Americans. The risk premium has always been considerable, rates never falling below 10 percent. Argentine pension funds have enjoyed interest rates as high as 35 percent over recent months: No less than 45 percent of the national debt estimated at between $130 and $150 billion is held by the Argentines themselves. Appeals were already made to the creditors during the first phase of the debt rescheduling involving the $55 billion held by Argentine funds and that was completed at the end of November. At the same time private debtors who became indebted in a strong currency would find themselves ruined by a peso devaluation. The final switch to the dollar would stabilize relations between creditors and debtors. But neither dollarization nor the currency board provides a guarantee of low interest rates, as there will always be an Argentine risk. That leaves the most economically realistic solution, the one backed by the technical experts: Floating the currency, but it is also the most risky. 