As Zimbabweans go to the polls this weekend to re-elect or oust Robert Mugabe, the only leader the country has ever known, the question of who will win the election seems almost secondary to how the loser and his followers will respond. Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government officials and military leaders that they would not allow this former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political party, the Movement for Democratic Change. In a television interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of a Tsvangirai government intolerable. State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's government of numerous human rights violations during the election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF officials. Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mugabe. That charge is based largely on a heavily edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the elimination of Mugabe. Political analysts say the charges may have laid the groundwork for Mugabe to jail Tsvangirai as a last-ditch effort to stay in power should he lose the election. Opposition officials say that 22 of their polling agents have been abducted in the past week, and a surge in violent attacks in swing districts could persuade enough opposition supporters to vote for ZANU-PF to ensure Mugabe's victory. In addition, governing party officials have revised election laws and procedures in a manner that could change the outcome of the vote, according to independent election observers. ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the opposition. Tsvangirai said at a news conference Thursday night that if he won the election, he would not prosecute Mugabe. 