C'wealth mission conduct questionable By A Special Correspondent - Britain's Prime Minister, Tony Blair, privately did two things concerning Zimbabwe during the recent retreat by Commonwealth leaders in Australia that raise questions about today's meeting in London by the troika of Australia, Nigeria and South Africa. The first was that Blair said he had received an interim report from the Commonwealth observer mission to Zimbabwe that condemned the outcome of the presidential election - before Zimbabweans had even had a chance to vote. But how could Blair have a Commonwealth report when no one else had received such a report that should be channeled through the Secretariat to all members, asked one of the other 53 Commonwealth leaders at the retreat? The British leader fudged his reply and the Commonwealth leaders were left with the distinct impression that the Blair report had already been written in London before the Commonwealth mission even left for Zimbabwe. Blair's second faux pas in Australia, according to some of the assembled Commonwealth leaders, came in his response to a remarkably conciliatory speech by Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister, Dr Stan Mudenge. But there was still an unanswered question in the minds of the Commonwealth leaders: How had the British Prime Minister seen the purported Commonwealth report on Zimbabwe when they had not? Meanwhile, back in Harare, some strange things were happening with the Commonwealth mission. While the Commonwealth observer mission and many of the foreign journalists were assembled in the hotel, the opposition leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), Morgan Tsvangirai, moved in with them, taking a complete floor for himself and his entourage. It is notable that the Commonwealth observer mission did not move again although the opposition had now joined them in the same hotel. The composition of the Commonwealth mission raised further questions. Why were several former and recent employees of the Commonwealth Secretariat accredited as observers? A Namibian woman member of the Commonwealth observer mission, who is the well-respected, Deputy Speaker of the National Council in her country, held different views to those stated in the interim Commonwealth report that was released only after the election results were known. Presidents Obasanjo and Mbeki, however, have the benefit of their own observer missions to Zimbabwe as well as the support of the vast majority of the Commonwealth. 