20 - President Fernando de la R?signed today, halfway through his four-year term, swamped by violent protests and looting that erupted when his government failed to reverse a deepening economic crisis. The president had made a last- ditch effort to form a unity government today with the leading opposition party, but when that was rejected, he announced he would leave. Mr. de la R?resignation will put the country's immediate future in the hands of the moderate opposition party that controls Congress and had recently begun blocking many of the former president's policies. Ram?uerta, the president of the Senate, is to become Argentina's provisional president for at least 48 hours while the Congress decides how to prepare for new elections, which are likely sometime next year. Under the law, a new president should be installed within three months. But Congress can change that, and how it will play its hand will be largely left to opposition leaders, including a former president, Carlos Sa?nem, and Senator Eduardo Duhalde, who lost to Mr. de la R? the 1999 elections. But his assumption of emergency powers appeared only to incite greater protests, beginning with an outpouring of thousands of people Wednesday night onto the streets of Buenos Aires, banging pots and pans and demanding Mr. de la R?resignation. He called on the opposition party, known as the Justicialist party, to participate in a national unity government in which they can bring in their ideas and programs. Mr. Gallo told reporters, the president wanted to avoid more suffering. Most opposition party leaders have called for the devaluation of the peso and suspension of payment on the country's debts. I believe the economy can be stabilized and grow during a transition government, said Governor Adolfo Rodr?ez Saa of San Luis Province, an influential member of the opposition. Mr. de la R?decline began in October 2000 with the resignation of his vice president, Carlos Alvarez, over the government's handling of charges that bribes were paid to opposition senators to pass a new labor law. Then, in October, his coalition suffered a devastating defeat in legislative elections that gave the opposition control of both houses of Congress. Cabinet officials on Wednesday publicly accused the Buenos Aires governor, Carlos Ruckauf, a former vice president and one of the most powerful leaders of the opposition, of instigating the looting to overthrow the government. Some aides to Mr. de la R?gued that the federal government should seize Governor Ruckauf's Buenos Aires provincial police force in order to control the rioting that surged in the working-class neighborhoods that surround the capital city. 