In that spirit, one of the latest to join the parade of let-me-tell-you-my-side authors is Robert H. Bork, the former appeals court judge who was nominated to the Supreme Court by President Reagan but was rejected by the Senate. Whereas the Constitution specified that laws were to be made by legislators who were elected by the people, not judges appointed by the President, Bork said, a lot of Americans now simply assume that the courts should produce results they like rather than sticking to the Constitution. Though without its subtitle, The Political Seduction of the Law, a book called The Tempting of America does sound rather like a collection of regional dessert recipes, Bork maintains that mass assumption explains the great temptation, expecting political results from the courts. In choosing federal Judge Robert Bork for the Supreme Court, President Reagan has tapped a leading architect of conservative legal theory -- and has ensured a tough confirmation battle in the Senate. Judge Bork, widely regarded as the most prominent and intellectually powerful advocate of judicial restraint, shares my views that judges' personal preferences and values should not be part of their constitutional interpretations, Mr. Reagan said. Committee Democrats say they don't expect to start hearings until September, raising questions about whether Judge Bork would be approved by the Supreme Court's opening next Oct. But it is Judge Bork's prolific and forceful writings as a law professor and judge that have earned him his reputation as an intellectual leader of conservative legal thought for a generation of law school graduates. It was that 1965 ruling that was the basis for the Supreme Court's 1973 decision recognizing a woman's right to an abortion, and Judge Bork's criticism of sexual privacy has caused alarm among women's groups over his nomination. He is a good friend of President Reagan's last nominee, Justice Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice William Rehnquist used to stay with Judge Bork on visits to Yale. One case where Judge Bork ruled for a labor union against a federal agency was classified by critics as pro-business because unions are in the business of representing workers. Judge Bork explained that he was concerned at the time about government coercion in private decisions, but that he had retracted that position more than a decade ago. Legal experts differed sharply in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee over what impact Judge Robert Bork's free-market approach to antitrust law would have on competition and consumers. In his five years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Judge Bork has heard eight cases involving the rights of minorities or women -- and ruled in their favor in seven. Apart from Judge Bork's extraordinary civil-rights record, there is a strong argument that minorities above all others should demand judicial restraint and an honest reading of the Constitution and its civil rights amendments. Judges such as Robert Bork insist that the law adhere to the Constitution, preserving a text that protects minority rights that today could again lose popularvor. 