tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for south america , including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in brazil and the expansion of a jeep plant now being built in argentina. roughly one third of the total investment , or about $126.6 million , will come from chrysler's suppliers , who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy , chrysler chairman robert eaton said. _ we do_ n't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets , _ added thomas gale , chrysler's executive vice president of international operations. _ we_ 're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities. _ eaton said the investments will boost chrysler's sales in the mercosur free-trade zone , which groups argentina , brazil , paraguay and uruguay. but the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the mercosur market away from rivals general motors corp. , ford motor co. and volkswagen ag , he said. _ we are targeting very specific market segments , _ he said. _ we do_ n't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application. _ the new brazilian plant , which will be chrysler's third limited-production facility in south america , will assemble the automaker's all-new dakota compact pickup truck for sale in argentina , brazil , paraguay and uruguay , the countries in the mercosur free-trade zone. a site for the brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll off the assembly line starting in mid-1998 , chrysler said. the trucks at first will be largely assembled from _ complete knock-down _ kits shipped from the united states , but the automaker intends to meet the mercosur trade bloc's 60 percent local content requirement after three years. the $10 million facility will supply the company's italian-designed vm motori four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engines for use in the brazilian dakota as_well_as in jeep models built in argentina. eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade. _ we think this is a major growth area , _ eaton said. _ it_ 's politically and economically a stable region , we think with particularly rising consumer buying power. _ including a small plant in venezuela that assembles cherokees and neon small cars from kits , the investments announced tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments chrysler and its suppliers have made in south america , the company said. 