ritsuko shimizu tokyo 1997-03-31 japan announced a range of measures on monday to try to jump start its long-stalled real estate market , a move analysts called a good first step but hardly the final answer to the problem. other measures include the use of public money to buy up land for public development projects , such as old-age homes , day-care centres and parks , as_well_as the easing of zoning and other regulations to promote such projects. _ even if they only achieve 60 percent , it_ 's still pretty significant , _ said darrel whitten , a strategist at lehman brothers japan. _ it_ 's not an end-all solution but it_ 's a step in the right direction , _ he said. the ministry of finance said trust banks would be allowed to issue securities linked to real estate business loans immediately , while rules allowing the establishment of special purpose companies to handle such securities would be introduced in the fiscal year starting from april 1 , 1998. the ministry of finance said bodies such as the housing loan administration corp , which administers the debts of failed _ jusen _ housing loan companies , would present a list of around 380 billion yen ( $3.06 billion ) worth of property to the government to be considered for public development. _ the situation is already an inferno but the government has only got to the stage of ordering a fire engine , _ said an analyst at a real estate research institute. a string of successful sales of blue-chip properties over the past two months have given a psychological boost to the market , leading many analysts to declare the worst over for prime property. a string of successful sales of blue-chip properties over the past two months have given a psychological boost to the market , leading many analysts to declare the worst over for prime property. but even richard li , whose hong kong's pacific century group bought a tract of prime tokyo land for double its forecast price , says while generally bullish on japan's land market , he does not think prices have hit bottom. _ i think it has not hit the rock bottom , we are in the last 10 percent $... at the most , in my view the last 15 percent , _ he told reuters financial television in an interview last week. 