michael georgy dubai 1996-08-20 tehran is banking on malaysia's petronas acquisition of a 30 percent stake in a project to develop two oil and gas fields in iran to deflect intense u.s. efforts to isolate the islamic republic. _ this shows that unilateral moves can_ not isolate the iranian oil industry. the official predicted the deal _ will have a positive impact _ on other foreign companies seeking business in iran's lucrative oil and gas industries. _ the deal indicates that the u.s. can_ not dictate its own will. _ but the key question now is whether other companies will follow suit in the face of tough new u.s. moves to penalise non-american firms that invest in energy projects in iran and libya , analysts and diplomats said. _ iran is trying everything possible to break the sanctions and the isolation , _ said an oil industry executive in the gulf. _ but the americans are_ n't joking and other companies like ours are likely to remain cautious. iran is a risky market. _ french oil group total sa on monday said malaysia's state-owned energy company petronas had taken a 30 percent stake in the sirri a and e fields through its carigali subsidiary in a deal approved by the iranian authorities. the iranian official said petronas sealed the deal before the new u.s. sanctions were made law. it will be seen by washington as open defiance of clinton's bill , _ said one analyst. _ at the same time , companies will be taking a risk if they invest in iran. _ but a british diplomat underlined the rift between the united states and its european allies who were outraged at the u.s. sanctions. _ we will be perfectly content to trade with iran. there are opportunites in iran and european companies will follow their governments _' leads , _ the gulf-based diplomat said. _ other companies are likely to follow petronas's lead. _ total , which has always said its dealings with both iran and libya were within french and international law , said earlier this month that the u.s. sanctions would not apply to sirri. iran said the new sanctions were doomed to fail because they lacked support from european states which have refused to adopt the u.s. hardline stand on tehran. 