Venezuelan military forces President Hugo Chavez to resign after a day of bloodshed Author: JORGE RUEDA CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) - President Hugo Chavez, whose social and economic policies polarized Venezuela and whose friendship with Cuba irritated the United States, resigned under military pressure Friday after a massive opposition demonstration ended in a bloodbath. Military officers said Chavez had ordered National Guard troops and civilian gunmen, including rooftop snipers, to stop the marchers from reaching the palace. The strike was in support of the protesting executives at the state oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela. The armed forces - which have traditionally strong ties to the U.S. military - resented Chavez's distancing of Venezuela from Washington, including a decision to suspend Venezuela's participation in regional military exercises. With Chavez's ouster, jubilant executives at Venezuela's state oil monopoly, who had been engaged in a work slowdown, promised to bring production and exports up to speed as quickly as possible. Oil prices dipped on news of Chavez' downfall, amid expectations of a production increase. Pedro Carmona, head of Venezuela's largest business association, announced he would head a transitional government to be installed later Friday. Chavez asked to be allowed to go into exile in Cuba, but the military turned him down, army Gen. Roman Fuemayor told Globovision television. Chavez remains widely popular among Venezuela's poor, a large percentage of the population. I urge Venezuelans to maintain calm, to keep faith, to continue working on the road toward democracy, freedom and peace, said retired Gen. Guaicaipuro Lameda, who until February headed the oil company and was a leader of the movement to oust Chavez. Chavez had irritated Washington with his close ties to Cuban President Fidel Castro, visits to Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and to Libya, and criticism of U.S. bombings in Afghanistan. Chavez's government also inherited a staggering $21 billion US in back wages and pensions owed workers by previous administrations - a debt he was unable to pay. The circles were created after Castro urged Chavez's supporters to organize during a 2000 visit. The oil executives launched their slowdown last week, cutting production at the Paraguana refinery complex, one of the world's largest, to below 50 per cent capacity. Oil generates 80 per cent of Venezuela's foreign earnings. After Thursday's violence, the high command decided Chavez had to go, and they confronted him en masse in his offices, Anselmi said. 