Shenzhou-3 orbited the Earth 108 times, and successfully landed on the targeted site in inner Mongolia: the Chinese space program is developing. The 47th congress of the International Federation of Astronautics that took place six years ago in Beijing was remarkable for the large number of cosmonauts who participated. There was even an Austrian there, but the country who organized the forum, the third country on the rating of space explorers, was not represented. China will not agree to put its citizens on a foreign spaceship, as it must launch its own space vehicle from its own cosmodrome. Mao Tse-tung mentioned the fact of the recent Soviet launch of the first ever satellite, weighing 70 kilos; then he turned to the Chinese ambassador and asked him: Do you weigh 70 kilos, ambassador Liu Xiao? That speech was delivered on November 15, 1957, and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket production program a year before that, in October of 1956 (on Mao Tse-tung's initiative). Two years ago, in October of 1955, Beijing received a person with the reputation of the Chinese Korolev Qian Xuesen, who came to China from the USA, where he had settled after graduating from Shanghai university, so it would be better to call him Chinese von Broun. At the same time, when the Chinese von Broun managed to reach China, there were other bearers of fresher secrets there from the country, which could launch ambassador Liu Xiao into space. The Chinese students who graduated from Russian universities and Soviet experts of nuclear and missile technologies. By the time of Mao Tse-tung's Moscow speech, the Chinese were actively searching for a site for their rocket range. China's three (unmanned) spaceships were launched into space from there: Shenzhou-1 was launched on November 20, 1999; it stayed in the orbit for about 24 hours, having orbited the Earth 14 times. Shenzhou-3 (blasted off on March 25) stayed in space for the same period of time, with the same number of circuits around the Earth. However, it is evident now that China has reliable rocket systems; it has mastered the art of space navigation and soft landing of a spaceship. China is also working on programs for Chinese cosmonauts to fly to the Moon, as well as a space station. 