Following the end of the Cold War, the United States has become the world's sole superpower and the trend of pragmatism in its foreign policy has become clearer and clearer. After coming to power, unilateralism and pragmatism have become Bush's main foreign policy line. Alternate use of and complementary nature of pragmatism and unilateralism constitute the characteristics of the Bush administration's diplomacy. At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was a product of the Cold War era, and thus has lost its binding force. It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology. Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties. The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision. It does not want anything to do with the international treaties, mechanisms, and organizations that restrict or prevent US freedom. Supported by the world, the United States launched the war against terrorism of this century. The United States views itself as a major force of anti-terrorism, for in the world only the United States has the capability to carry out the global war against terrorism. Bush said, Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists and any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime. The United States wants all the countries in the world to stand behind it in the fight against terrorism and decides which country is its enemy or friend on the basis of that country's attitude toward it. But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it. 