For 10 days, the second Belgian astronaut will get to the International Space Station [ISS] on board the brand new Russian Soyuz TMA-1 space ship. On Thursday [29 November] the Belgian Government formally committed itself, vis-a-vis its Russian and European partners (the European Space Agency [ESA]), to pay Frank De Winne's ticket into space. The formal agreement regarding Frank De Winne's flight with the Russians was signed in Brussels on Thursday by Charles Picque, the Minister for Science Policy, and his government commissioner Yvan Ylieff. The document, a letter sent to both the ESA (European Space Agency, to which Frank De Winne currently reports) and the Russian Rosaviacosmos space agency, guaranteed the payment by Belgium of the expenses tied to this space trip. So on 4 November 2002, that is to say, in a little less than one year, the second Belgian to reach space will take off from the Baikonor cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on board a brand new Soyuz space ship: the TMA-1. So, if that should prove necessary, De Winne will be able to personally pilot the space ship. In Brussels on Wednesday [28 November], the French astronaut Claudie Haignere, who had just completed a flight in space together with the Russians that in every way was identical to the one scheduled for De Winne, could not find enough praise for our fellow citizen, with whom she trained for several months in Moscow. Some Particularly Financial Choices As is known, Frank De Winne's taxi flight lasting about 10 days comes with a price tax: some 600 million [Belgian] francs (15.5 million euros). The sum in question will come from the SSTC's space budgets and be deducted in several years (two or three). The sums obtained will result from the assignment of a portion of the space budget to this mission (and its many related scientific fall-outs) rather than to other optional programs. In a word, De Winne's ticket into space has been financed. Since there is no other Belgian astronaut at the ESA who is capable of replacing Frank De Winne for this mission if it suddenly proved impossible for him to carry it out, we are also expecting to take out 'travel insurance' for our 'cosmonaut,' Yvan Ylieff also said. In a few weeks the second Belgian to go up there will don a Russian cosmonaut's space suit. De Winne will thus qualify technically in space piloting. 