Zimbabwe suspended for rigging election SubHead: 'Bad decision,' Mugabe camp says Author: Robert Fife, Ottawa Bureau Chief OTTAWA - The Commonwealth suspended Zimbabwe for a year yesterday and called for new elections after concluding Robert Mugabe had rigged recent presidential elections. Mr. Mugabe has been widely condemned for rigging the election, held March 9-11. Though Zimbabwe's harshest critics had argued the country should be suspended before the elections, African countries, supported by Mr. Chretien, took a wait-and-see attitude, setting up the three-member committee to make a final determination after the election. Election observers reported thousands of voters were not given the chance to cast ballots in the election, while others were intimidated into voting for Mr. Mugabe's governing ZANU-PF party. In Harare, Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), whose leader Morgan Tsvangirai had challenged Mr. Mugabe, praised the Commonwealth for taking concrete action. What is critical at the moment is to see how we can restore legitimacy on a government that has stolen an election and that government must now deal with national questions of drought and food shortages, Mr. Tsvangirai said. In Canada, the opposition parties were highly critical of the Commonwealth, saying it should have suspended Zimbabwe indefinitely until Mr. Mugabe holds free and fair elections. Joe Clark, the Conservative leader, said the suspension of Zimbabwe is one step in what should be a series of moves to restore democracy to the southern African nation. Canada froze future project funding to Zimbabwe last May, suspended export funding and last week banned Zimbabwe officials from visiting, but Mr. Martin said more sanctions should be imposed. Canada must push for punitive action against Mr. Mugabe and his band of thugs that have brutalized the people of Zimbabwe, which means an indefinite suspension from the Commonwealth, a ban on travel for Mugabe's cronies and to freeze their personal assets. Political violence, often aimed at white land owners, followed under the ZANU-PF's land reform program. At least 150 people have died and tens of thousands left homeless in attacks backed by Mr. Mugabe's government. 