WHAT THEY SAID: No tears for Tobin, but some for al-Qaeda OTTAWA - The plight of prisoners and politicians has been weighing heavily on the minds of editorial writers and pundits in and around the nation's capital. It's been a week now since Jean Chretien's Cabinet shuffle and the dramatic departure of Brian Tobin -- seven days during which the print pundits have had time to ponder his actions. Still, before discussing the antics of Mr. Tobin and the elevation of Ottawa's John Manley to the status of golden boy, there is the controversial, and more pressing, matter of the plight of the al-Qaeda fighters imprisoned at a U.S. military base in Cuba. Even thugs deserve humane treatment, reads the headline of the Ottawa Citizen editorial. No tears will be shed in this corner since Brian Tobin's departure represents his third consecutive betrayal of voters, Walter Robinson, federal director of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation and a regular columnist in The Ottawa Sun wrote yesterday. In the Citizen, columnist Rosa Harris-Adler wrote a devastatingly sarcastic piece, ridiculing Mr. Tobin's assertion that he was leaving for family reasons. She chronicles what she imagines his first week post-politics would have been like: Day One: Brian decides it's finally time to learn how to diaper the baby. By Day Seven, however, Ms. Harris-Adler notes that though Mr. Tobin has finally mastered the diapering process, his baby who is 15 years old is not amused. He says that Mr. Tobin walked on too many toes, and made too many enemies in Ottawa. In The Kingston Whig-Standard Paul Schliesmann writes, Canadians don't need the kind of politician Brian Tobin had become -- flighty, opportunistic and lacking in commitment to his job as a Member of Parliament. The pundits in Ottawa, it seems, have saved all of their praise for John Manley, the new Deputy Prime Minister and a hometown favourite. [Mr. Mr. Manley's continuing responsibility for national security, along with the added clout he gains as Deputy Prime Minister, bodes well for the country. 