Timothy Heritage MOSCOW 1997-03-31 President Boris Yeltsin gave the green light on Monday to a draft treaty that would push Russia into a union with Belarus , despite liberals' fears that he might be signing away some of his powers to a hardliner. Link: [Comments: provides the referent for Yeltsin , the new treaty , the union ] Link: [Comments: provides the referent for Yeltsin , the new treaty , the union ] Link: [Comments: provides the referent for Yeltsin , the new treaty , the union ] But Yeltsin appeared to have resisted a rearguard action by Russian liberals who fear the authoritarian Lukashenko could gain a slice of power at the Kremlin's expense , posing questions about democracy , stability and human rights. Link: [Comments: provides the referent for the liberals , and also needs previous mentions of similar things.] _ Russian President Boris Yeltsin has on the whole approved the draft Union Treaty between Russia and Belarus , _ Tass said. Interfax news agency quoted well-informed source as saying an agreement would certainly be signed on Wednesday but added : _ The most recent version of the text of the treaty should not be regarded as something final and fixed. _ Russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a _ community _ with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by Yeltsin and Lukashenko on April 2 last year. Kremlin aides say Russians will not wake up in a new , single state on Thursday but that the accord has _ colossal importance. _ A draft of the new treaty obtained by Reuters was confusing and left many questions unanswered. But Kremlin sources said liberals , led by first deputy prime ministers Anatoly Chubais and Boris Nemtsov , had tried to prevent Yeltsin approving the treaty and that divisions had opened in the government over the integration plans. Above_all , liberals fear Lukashenko could gain jurisdiction over some decisions affecting Russia under a nine-member Supreme Council which will oversee the Russia-Belarus union. 