Becoming a captive after being defeated in a war apparently is bad, but being not treated as a prisoner of war [POW] is even worse. While mankind has unquestionably become more civilized with respect to humanitarian treatment for POWs today on the basis of the principles in international law in comparison with ancient times when POWs were slaughtered or enslaved, we should watch out for the possible regression in this regard. Each Side Has a Different Story with Respect to the Treatment for POWs It is reported that the US Armed Forces are regarding the captives interned in Guantanamo as dangerous terrorists and Islamic Muslims. One US military officer in charge of the prisoners' camp said that the most of the prisoners are young people in their 20s or 30s, and that they are locked up separately in cells 2.5 square meters each. The first-day menu for the prisoners shows that they had a package of vacuum-packed Italian vegetable noodle and a package containing peanuts, granola bars, and a box of colorful, sugar-coated cereal, a favorite of American young people. While these foods are strange to the prisoners, the United States has indeed abided by the dietary rules that Muslims have to follow. Christopher, a physician working in the prisoners' camp, said: We really treat them well. A medium has this description for the Guantanamo prisoners' camp: The 2.5-square meter cement cell is way below the standards of cells built for American prisoners. A British newspaper maintains that the X-ray prison camp in Guantanamo is full of cruelties and torture. Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed. US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees. But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs. If it chooses to characterize these detainees as POWs, then it must release some of them sooner or later and it is very likely that these people will again attack the United States with terrorist means. These prisoners not only are citizens of the belligerent country, but also are citizens of nonbelligerent countries, even citizens of the United States' allies, such as Britain. Thus, the United States cannot simply consider this issue as contradiction between the enemy and itself, it must also consider international relations. Therefore, on the issue of defining these prisoners' status, the United States must test the attitudes of the international community, especially the attitudes of European countries. The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners. They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law. If the United States insisted that these prisoners are to be tried at a military tribunal, it is almost certain that they will be sentenced to death. US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld said that the Afghanistan's Taliban and al-Qaeda members are unlawful combatants, not POWs, and so the United States would not treat them as POWs and they would not enjoy any rights prescribed in the Geneva Convention on POWs. This is the first time in war history that terrorists have become war prisoners. One thing the international community feels incomprehensible is that why are these Taliban and al-Qaeda members not considered as POWs since, before the war they were organized combatants, the battles they fought were also organized resistance, and they were obviously captured in battles during the war? What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions. After winning the war, the US Government has come up with many other excuses to deny the captives' POW status. If the United States chooses to disregard the Geneva Convention the way it follows this time, the legality and sanctity of international law will be substantially reduced. The convention has specified the treatment for POWs and their privileges. Now let us compare the convention's provisions and the media's descriptions of the detainees in terms of their dignity, lodging, clothing, activities and trial. The current treatment for the detainees: The prisoners were brought to the prisons in a brutal manner. This little cell will house two or more prisoners with the arrival of more captives in the future. When the prisoners are let out for exercise, take a bath, or go to the toilet, their hands must still be tied up, and two US soldiers will accompany them. There will not be a jury, and these captives may not appeal. Reprisal against the prisoners of war shall be prohibited. 