Bush's Policy on Argentina Signals Shift in Approach WASHINGTON, Jan. When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its own economic mismanagement. Still, Mr. Bush's reaction to the biggest international economic crisis so far in his presidency is a telling example of a new - and perhaps risky - approach to the kind of national economic bankruptcies that dominated Washington's dealings with the world's emerging markets in the late 1990's. But the first time his approach was tested, when Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. It is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week that they hoped would force officials of developing countries and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico. Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the fund's demands for fiscal restraint. There is every possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support over the last decade. Already there is considerable doubt that Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side, said last year was a major goal of his administration. Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the country. The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment. And some argue that both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar. Some longtime critics of the fund applauded the Bush administration's stance. 