Commander of base sees a world of change GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- What a difference a terrorist detention center makes. Between the armored vehicles ferrying Taliban and al Qaeda prisoners to Camp X-Ray and the international observers whizzing past, it may be time to dust off the only traffic signal that ever operated on the 45-square-mile base, says Navy Capt. "It was right at Sherman Avenue, just a little bit this side of the McDonalds." Until a Marine general arrived two weeks ago to run the prison project, Buehn was the highest ranking officer here -- a cross between mayor, overseeing the schools, social clubs and 5K run on Martin Luther King Day, and Navy commander, in charge of this strategic air and sea refueling station. But he's not directly responsible for the nascent offshore U.S. terror compound, which, depending on whether the Pentagon decides to stage military tribunals here, may one day make its nickname -- Gitmo -- as notorious as Devil's Island. "When I came down here, Gitmo had been downsized quite a bit and we were just maintaining our mission of being a refueling port and an airfield. He arrived here in 2000, and is now presiding over a transformation of this suburban-style base that, until its latest assignment, was a backwater of 2,400 people -- 700 of them Navy and Marine members, the rest Jamaican and Filipino contract workers plus family members. So much so, he said, that not a single family member or contractor has so far requested to leave here, the oldest U.S. base overseas, and the only one left in a communist country. Nor is there any worry over the infrastructure, which was stretched to the limit in 1994 and 1995 when the base became an encampment 55,000-plus Haitian and Cuban boat people -- and the commander sent civilians stateside to make room for the 8,000 U.S. personnel who came to tend to the migrant project. Fourteen months later, Castro cut off utilities to the base, compelling the U.S. Navy to install electricity and desalination plants. But Buehn said the Cubans have not raised any formal objections to the base's latest mission. Moreover, he labeled as "a serious offer," a so-far spurned proposal by Havana to send medical teams here to support the prison camp project. Were Washington to decide to maintain Guantanamo as an offshore terrorist detention center, Buehn said, he would propose building a maximum security facility on leeward side. "As base commander, I've given a lot of thought about what the name Guantanamo Bay may conjure up in someone's mind. 