Guantanamo to hold terror prisoners The U.S. naval base at Guantamano Bay, Cuba, once a detention center for thousands of Cubans and Haitians seeking freedom in America, may soon become a prison for men with a radically different view of the country. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Miami, said she supported the idea, in part, because it would underscore the naval base's strategic importance at a time when some members of Congress have urged returning the territory to Cuba. Because the base is not on U.S. soil, people detained there are not entitled to American residency and eventual citizenship privileges. The prisoners from Afghanistan are not expected to arrive for weeks, and Rumsfeld said there are no plans to stage military tribunals or trials at the base, which is home to about 1,100 members of the Navy and Marine Corps. 1999 PLANS At the Southern Command in Miami, the Pentagon's base for military operations in Latin America and the Caribbean, spokesman Steve Lucas said planners had pulled out blueprints from April 1999 -- when the Clinton administration had briefly considered housing up to 20,000 refugees from the Kosovo conflict at the base. In this instance, military sources said, the number of prisoners would be much smaller -- perhaps in the dozens -- and the logistics would focus more on security at the 45-square-mile base and less on the comfort of prisoners who are considered either members of a terrorist network or supporters of terrorists. As of 1999, 2,400 civilians were on the base, including the families of the sailors and Marines who manage the port and patrol the fence line that separates the base from communist-ruled Cuba. The base is extremely isolated. Visitors can reach it only under strict military escort and with prior permission from the Pentagon, aboard special small shuttle flights that reach the base by a circuitous flight from the United States. There is also a gate between Cuba proper and the base that is sometimes opened for meetings between military commanders, or to repatriate Cubans who have been taken to the base. Cuban leader Fidel Castro has long argued that the U.S. military occupation of the base is illegal, while U.S. officials say the base exists under a lease agreement that was part of a 1934 treaty with Cuba. 