US President George W. Bush presented 14 February his alternative plan to the Kyoto Protocol, which is designed to slow down global warming. Presented Thursday 14 February by President George W. Bush, this alternative plan for slowing down global warming moves away from the binding measures of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, recently approved by more than 170 countries in Marrakech, but rejected in March 2001 by President Bush, who deemed it harmful to the US economy and reproached it for imposing constraints on industrialized countries only. It advocates a voluntarist approach to the fight against global warming by directly linking the objectives of greenhouse gas reduction to US economic growth. According to the White House, this should make it possible to reduce the intensity of greenhouse gas emission generated by the US economy by 18% over the next 10 years, an objective described by the Bush Administration as comparable to that imposed by the Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Bush calls for India and China To Act The US President asserted, moreover, his determination to win developing countries over to his plan, stating that the US approach would give them a yardstick for progress on climate changes which recognizes their right to economic development. He asserted, in an allusion to the binding objectives of the Kyoto Protocol, that it would be unjust and counterproductive to condemn developing countries to weak or even nonexistant economic growth by insisting that they adopt unrealistic greenhouse gas reduction targets. President George W. Bush considered, moreover, that it would be irresponsible not to ask India and China to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. The Discontent of the Environmentalists As far as the US Administration is concerned, this approach will make it posible to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere in the long run, while sustaining the economic growth needed to finance our investments in a new, cleaner energy structure. The White House hastened to describe the Bush plan as the most audacious program in American history aiming at reducing power station gas emissions, considering that it would be possible to save the administration up to $1 billion, compared to the costs that binding rules would lead to. 