More Drivers Texting at Wheel Despite State Bans, Study Finds Read more: http://www.foxnews.com/leisure/2011/12/08/more-drivers-texting-at-wheel-despite-state-bans-study-finds/?test=afut#ixzz1qpHTQbz7 WASHINGTON – For all the criticism and new legal bans, texting by drivers just keeps increasing, especially among younger motorists. A national survey, the first government study of its kind on distracted driving, and other data released Thursday by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration underscore the difficulty authorities face in discouraging texting and cellphone talking while driving. At any given moment last year on America's streets and highways, nearly one in every 100 car drivers was texting, emailing, surfing the Web or otherwise using a hand-held electronic device, the safety administration said. In 2010 there were an estimated 3,092 deaths in crashes affected by a wide range of driver distractions, from eating meals to thumbing email, the safety administration said. The agency also takes an annual snapshot of drivers' behavior behind the wheel by staking out intersections to count people using cellphones and other devices, as well as other distracting behavior.While electronic gadgets are in ever greater use by drivers, motorists are deeply conflicted about it, a NHTSA survey of over 6,000 drivers found. More than half of drivers said making a cellphone call made no difference to their driving performance, and a quarter said texting or emailing made no difference. Indeed, big majorities of drivers surveyed support bans on hand-held cellphone use and texting while driving -- 71 percent and 94 percent, respectively. About twice as many drivers reported answering incoming calls as making calls while driving, 71 percent to 41 percent. And more drivers reported reading than sending texts or emails. There were very few situations in which drivers said they would never talk on the phone or send texts. Few drivers said they would never place a call or send a message if they'd seen a police officer, had a child on board or were driving at nighttime or in a marked school zone. The increase in texting while driving came even though many states have banned the practice, and that's alarming, said Jonathan Adkins, a spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association. Before and after each enforcement wave, NHTSA researchers observed cellphone use by drivers and conducted surveys at drivers' license offices in the two cities. In Hartford, there was a 57 percent drop in hand-held phone use, and texting behind the wheel dropped by nearly three-quarters. But safety advocates are pushing for a national ban on texting while driving. 