Finance Minister Pedro Malan insisted yesterday on the need for a more profound constructive engagement on the part of multilateral institutions and governments in helping Argentina. Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help. Pedro Malan's attitude in relation to Argentina is very different from that of Jaime Caruana, governor of the Bank of Spain, the Spanish central bank. Malan noted that as part of the constructive engagement in relation to Argentina, a group of experts spent the day with authorities from that country, recounting their experiences in situations like the one the Argentines are facing. In the group were former Bank of Mexico Governor Miguel Mancera, who dealt with the peso crisis in 1995; a former Chilean Central Bank president who faced the 1982 crisis, when the Chilean GDP dropped by 14 percent; former IMF Fiscal Affairs Director Vito Tanzi; an expert in restructuring the Spanish debt; and former Brazilian Central Bank President Gustavo Loyola, who lived through the time of the Collor government's withholdings and of the Proer [Program to Encourage the Reorganization and Strengthening of the National Financial System] - the program to restructure the Brazilian banking system. In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal. We want to keep alight the flame of a single currency in the region in future, even if a distant one, but until then, there is the job of consolidating the institutions in the political and institutional sphere, of productive restructuring and of modernizing the State in six countries - Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile and Bolivia. The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system. Malan predicts that Argentina will be more competitive when it emerges from the crisis. According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before. This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says. Malan defends a different posture: to set aside the notion of cynicism, skepticism, that things will not work out, and believe, like the Europeans, that there is a future to be built by the Mercosur countries and Chile and Bolivia, the associate members. 