Rasul told Radio Mindanao Network here that some 1,000 members of the Misuari force have been on standby and are prepared to spring their leader from detention in Sta. Misuari, charged with rebellion for the Nov. Rasul admitted, however, that even if there was a strong desire among Misuari's followers to free him, the plan would fail if the jailed rebel leader went against it. But while admitting to the plot, Rasul said Misuari's followers were also appealing to the Macapagal administration to free their leader. Rasul said they could not understand why the government was so hard on Misuari when it was lenient with other leaders who revolted in the past. If the government was able to extend amnesty to our Christian brothers, like (former renegade Army officer Gregorio) Gringo Honasan and others, why can't it accord the same privilege to Chairman Misuari? Local Government Assistant Secretary Abraham Iribani called on Saturday for sobriety among Muslim leaders and Moro National Liberation Front commanders amid alleged attempts by certain groups to start a religious war over Misuari's detention. We should remain calm and let the law take its course, Iribani, designated government spokesperson for Misuari's case, said he told a group of Muslim leaders and MNLF commanders in a dialogue in Zamboanga City. Irabini said he explained to them that Misuari was being held for rebellion, and not because he was a Muslim, a member of the Bangsamoro people or an MNLF leader. Iribani said he explained to the Muslim leaders that Misuari's personal demands, including access to the media, could not be granted because these were not within his rights as a detainee. As this developed, the number of lawyers who will defend Misuari grew to 28, after former Davao City Mayor Benjamin de Guzman and two others agreed to serve as his counsel. Didagen Dilangalen said the prosecution of Misuari for rebellion could force the government to revive the cases against other rebel leaders, particularly of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and the National Democratic Front. 