We don't know who is winning the drug war in Latin America, but we know who's losing it -- the press. Over the past six months, six journalists have been killed and 10 kidnapped by drug traffickers or leftist guerrillas -- who often are one and the same -- in Colombia. The attacks have intensified since the Colombian government began cracking down on the traffickers in August, trying to prevent their takeover of the country. The slaughter in Colombia was very much on the minds of 450 editors and publishers from Latin America, the United States, the Caribbean and Canada attending the 45th general assembly of the Inter-American Press Association in Monterrey, Mexico, this week. The drug lords who claimed responsibility said they would blow up the Bogota newspaper's offices if it continued to distribute in Medellin. At Monterrey, publisher Luis Gabriel Cano, although shaken by the murders, issued a statement saying: We will not cease our fight against drug trafficking. The publishers in Monterrey command no battalions, but they agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's editions. A final statement yesterday said: While some advances are being made in nations throughout the hemisphere, the state of press freedom in the Americas still must be regarded as grim as long as journalists and their families are subject to the crudest form of censorship: death by assassination. The report charged that Panama's Manuel Noriega is not only in league with the drug traffickers but also is bullying the press as never before. As it happens, the four countries cited, Colombia, Cuba, Panama and Nicaragua, are not only where the press is under greatest attack but also are linked by the drug trade and left-wing politics. Robert Merkel, a former U.S. attorney handling drug indictments in Florida, doesn't think for a minute that Castro's much publicized trials of high officials engaged in the drug trade mean he has broken off with the Medellin drug cartel. If the cartel succeeds in blackmailing the Colombian authorities into negotiations, the cartel will be in control and Fidel can exploit his past relationships with them, he told the Journal's David Asman recently. <LU_ANNOTATE> The struggle against the drug lords in Colombia will be a near thing. 