"Liz is a national treasure and when she entered the hospital, I thought it was as important as the President of the U.S. going in and we treated it as such.For the tabloid press had been humming with rumors that Liz Taylor had AIDS virtually since she was checked into Daniel Freeman Hospital in Marina del Rey April 9 with a high fever and sinus infection.If Liz's public is fascinated by her frailties, perhaps reassured somehow by the knowledge that even the gods are vulnerable, their interest is also piqued by the public face she puts on her relentless brushes with illness and addiction.But the Betty Ford clinic encouraged Taylor only to fight the good fights that had brought her there, rather than take on all addictions -- to drugs and food -- at once."For somebody like me who is obsessive, it's amazing I was never a gambler," she said at the time.My heart feels big and pounding.Liz is as close to American royalty as you can have, and our readers . . . in the heartland . . . they're living and dying with her," said Barry Levine, Hollywood bureau chief of the Star, which featured a cover photograph of Liz, hooked up to an intravenous tube and oxygen mask, being transferred from the Marina del Rey hospital to St. John's.Her addictions have even been linked to a criminal investigation by the Los Angeles County district attorney's office; last week, prosecutors announced that no charges would be filed against Taylor's doctors, who had been accused of over-prescribing dependence-forming drugs.But then Liz Taylor, 58, has always lived a life of extremes.Liz Taylor's latest bout with pneumonia has drawn the kind of intense scrutiny normally accorded presidential polyps.The Taylor wit shone through even Wednesday's press conference, when doctors passed on the actress' desire to "come out and wave at you, but she wasn't in her balcony attire."It was partly to still the gossips that Taylor's doctors called a press conference Wednesday at St. John's Hospital and Medical Center in Santa Monica.But it has been her wrestling matches with weight and addiction that have consistently lured the world's curiosity and, at times, admiration.Over the years she has endured about 20 major operations on her back, appendix, eyes and teeth; when the Asian flu threatened Taylor's life, doctors made a hole in her throat so she could breathe."I saw her yesterday and I was really pleased," Sager said Wednesday.Typical Liz Taylor.Taylor regained much of the weight, even though she took her drug problems in hand once again in a second stay at the Betty Ford clinic in 1988.In fact, Taylor has been plagued by health woes ever since her 1945 film debut in "National Velvet"; her fall from a horse triggered a lifetime of back trouble.Taylor, the first celebrity known to enter the Betty Ford clinic in Rancho Mirage, made a public example of her willingness to take on her addictions in two heavily publicized stays there.