Ervin, exasperated, pointed out that since the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is so broad that a case on practically any issue might come before it, Mr. Marshall's theory meant that the committee would have a difficult time asking any questions about Mr. Marshall's judicial philosophy.The fact that Mr. Thomas's judicial views are not the same as those of Thurgood Marshall is a reflection of the increasingly pluralistic nature of black society, but hardly an issue worthy of senatorial consideration.But Mr. Marshall held firm, stating that future cases would be related to interpretations of Miranda, and that the issue of crime was still very controversial.Hruska had received letters stating that Mr. Marshall was too liberal for the Supreme Court, that he would upset the "balance" between liberals and conservatives.Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) has said that the Senate is "entitled to a direct, categorical answer" on Judge Thomas's stance on abortion, and on Roe v.Committee Chairman James Eastland (D., Miss.) raised this issue, but only to allow Mr. Marshall to clarify the facts, and to state that he was not a communist.But such personal experiences are irrelevant to the work of a justice of the Supreme Court, according to Thurgood Marshall.Mr. Marshall refused, explaining that there were other cases pending on variations and interpretations of Miranda and that, if confirmed to the Supreme Court, he would have to rule on those cases: "On decisions that are certain to be re-examined in the court, it would be improper for me to comment on them in advance. . . .Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), whose primary contribution to the Marshall hearings was elucidating the normative guidelines for senators.Sam Ervin (D., N.C.) attempted to get Mr. Marshall to discuss the case law that preceded Miranda, in much the same way that Sen."It is a problem," Mr. Marshall said, though a problem for the committee, not the nominee.During the Marshall hearings in 1967, the issue of the day was not abortion but crime, and the most controversial case was Miranda v.Several other issues were brought up during the Marshall hearings that have a bearing on Judge Thomas's case.