The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields.With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region, Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army, possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments.The president said he hopes to free Kuwait through economic pressure on Saddam Hussein, which continued to mount as the world's oil-consuming nations -- and, just as importantly, many of its leading oil producers -- joined together in a campaign to cut off Iraqi oil without causing global economic dislocation."I think we're overestimating the ease with which he can roll into Saudi Arabia," Mr. Kemp said.Gen. Powell dismissed concerns that the early arrivals might face the greatest danger, saying that fighters and attack aircraft from the carrier Independence, believed to be in the Gulf of Oman, were close enough to the Saudi shore to provide air cover to the arriving troops.More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each.Privately, U.S. officials say the estimates for the eventual U.S. commitment of troops, which began landing at Saudi bases yesterday afternoon, go as high as 40,000, and would include a carefully-tailored mix of light and armored units that may have to remain there for weeks or months.They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to "marry up" with their equipment at points where the ships arrive.Even the mere threat of chemical weapons may have a powerful psychological effect on troops and civilians -- especially technicians in the Saudi oil fields, who are particularly important now that the Saudis are being counted on to increase oil output significantly.Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units.The following afternoon, he and Robert Gates, the president's deputy advisor for national security; Paul Wolfowitz, Mr. Cheney's top policy aide; and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, soon to become overall commander of the growing nucleus of U.S. forces, were aloft.The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack, according to U.S. officials, could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia, a base in the Indian Ocean.If, as some industry and other officials believe, the captain demands that the Saudis honor their contractual commitment to fill the tanker, the U.S. will have to decide whether to stop the giant ship, using the awesome combat power of the nearby carrier Eisenhower and its twelve escort ships.The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass.President Bush, Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refused to disclose the size of the force they have committed.According to industry and other sources, the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port.