Writing in the Howard Law Journal in 1987, Mr. Thomas argued for what he called a "natural law" or "higher law" mode of judging, in which the judge examines not only the text of the Constitution or statute but also the moral principles underlying the American form of government.At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration, and in 1981 he was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education.The reason for the smooth passage, EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench) thinks, is that "Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition.Mr. Thomas is likely to be a very different kind of judge from the man he is replacing.Mr. Thomas's life is a remarkable story.Dean Robinson added, "People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think, but Clarence is his own man.""Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says, not what he wants it to say," Mr. Thomas told me.Once people figure this out, maybe they'll leave me alone." --- Mr. D'Souza, a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, is the author of "Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus" (Free Press/Macmillan, 1991).But I believe in compensation for actual victims, not for people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group." -- "America should not fall into the trap of blaming all the problems faced by blacks or other minorities on others.In 1987 he told the Atlantic, "When the civil rights people indict me, the man they are indicting is that man.We don't get smarter just because we sit next to white people in class, and we don't progress just because society is ready with handouts.While the views of President Bush's first Supreme Court nominee, David Souter, were virtually unknown before his confirmation, the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas has boldly articulated his vision of constitutional law, both as a judge -- he now sits on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the nation's second-highest bench -- and, before that, as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for eight years.While at the EEOC, Mr. Thomas gave speeches accusing the Republican Party of "blatant indifference" toward black voters, and chastised Ronald Reagan in particular for letting Bob Jones University get away with racial discrimination, and for "foot dragging" on the Voting Rights Act extension.Eventually he took a job with Missouri Attorney General (now Senator) John Danforth because "he promised to treat me like anyone else.Mr. Thomas maintains, with support from Abraham Lincoln and abolitionist Frederick Douglass, that the Constitution must be read in the context of the principle of equality inherent in the Declaration of Independence.