In each case, the former junk bond impresario will be viewed as a convicted felon. -- So much evidence against him has already been gathered by federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission, much of which will eventually become available to shareholder lawyers, that plaintiffs' attorneys will have to do relatively little sleuthing of their own. -- While Mr. Milken didn't plead guilty to any racketeering counts, recent court cases have made it increasingly easy to show a so-called pattern of racketeering in civil cases.Most shareholder cases are settled, and Mr. Greenfield says he has had only two jury trials in the past six years, while handling scores of suits."It's a very real possibility," said Mr. Greenfield, who has filed several cases against Mr. Milken.Also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against Mr. Boesky, Drexel, Mr. Milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations.While the Unocal suit claims enormous damages to shareholders, a suit filed by Mr. Greenfield's firm in February may be even broader.Mr. Bromberg and others assert that Mr. Liman, Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, negotiated to make the plea agreement narrow enough so that little of what Mr. Milken admitted to can be used against him in the civil suits.Finally, a sprinkling of cases across the country target Mr. Milken among many other defendants in cases alleging that savings and loans associations and other companies suffered losses because they purchased large portfolios of Drexel's junk bonds as part of back-scratching arrangements with Mr. Milken.He says he believes that once one case "breaks through" to trial, Mr. Milken will have no choice but to start settling the rest of the cases.Steven Rosenfeld, an attorney for Mr. Milken, says there are "no plans whatsoever" for his client to seek bankruptcy-court protection.Realistically, it's highly unlikely that the civil cases against Mr. Milken will ever go to trial.While some shareholder attorneys routinely file multimillion-dollar suits whenever a takeover is announced or the market drops, the suits against Mr. Milken seem to be much more likely to succeed than most.Shareholders have sued Mr. Milken under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, and RICO damages are automatically tripled. -- The SEC's funds to compensate victims of market wrongdoing by Mr. Milken, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and convicted abritrager Ivan F. Boesky, while stocked with more than $600 million, cannot be used to pay tripled damages or punitive damages.Alan Bromberg, a law professor at Southern Methodist University, says showing a chain of bond purchases doesn't necessarily prove that Mr. Milken was in control of the sellers and buyers, "but it does permit that inference."A civil case is always easier to prove than a criminal case because the civil plaintiff doesn't have to prove his charges beyond a reasonable doubt.Mr. Greenfield's firm filed the suit along with plaintiff lawyer William S. Lerach of the shareholder law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie and Lerach.