We want the world to know much, much more about Antarctica after our expedition than it did before we set out, Steger said. Planetary warming of just a few degrees could melt the polar ice caps, raising sea level and flooding coastal areas, but Steger said it's simplistic to worry about submerged cities. Qin will take snow and ice samples all the way across Antarctica, recording temperatures and oxygen content for a geological history of the icecap. U.S. tour operators are planning to send a record 4,000 or more travelers to Antarctica, prompting calls for strict government regulation to protect penguins, other wildlife and the very fate of the frozen continent. What better way to honor a model international agreement than to continue its tradition of preserving Antarctica for scientific research, and keeping it off-limits to military bases, commercial development and mining. A continent bigger than America, covered in ice more than a mile thick, Antarctica is isolated by winds and currents that make it the coldest, driest place on Earth. This is the story of three groups of scientific sleuths in Antarctica: biologists studying the antifreeze systems of fish glaciologists examining whether the West Antarctic ice sheet will break apart and flood the world and cosmologists searching for the birth of galaxies. Four groups of glaciologists are setting up camp in West Antarctica to see whether the ice sheet there -- a hunk of ice as big as Greenland -- is beginning to collapse. Some ice streams move a half mile a year, pulling ice from Antarctica's interior to the sea. Glaciologists say Antarctica is responding to the long-term warming of the Earth since the last ice age 18,000 years ago, and to the weird geology of the frozen continent. But the National Science Foundation, which runs U.S. bases, thinks that the government's commitment to Antarctica will wane, what with new restrictions on mineral development and declining Soviet competition. The Trans-Antarctica Expedition Mr. Steger writes about in Crossing Antarctica (Knopf, 304 pages, $25) was born of the ambitions of Mr. Steger and Jean-Louis Etienne, who met in 1986 in the middle of separate arctic journeys. 