six days that shook venezuela caracas (afp) - here are the main events of the crisis that shook venezuela over the past six days, in which at least 41 people were killed and 323 were injured: tuesday, april 9: venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company, demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed by president hugo chavez. wednesday, april 10: union leaders extend the strike for 24 hours because of what they call chavez's 'aggressive' and 'intolerant' response to their demands. thursday, april 11: some 50,000 people, including business and union leaders, mass to demand chavez's resignation. the government urges supporters to back chavez. - chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television networks opposed to him. - pro-government and opposition demonstrators face off in caracas. friday, april 12: army commander general efrain vazquez announces that chavez wants to resign. - business leader pedro carmona replaces chavez as the new president, dissolves the national assembly, dismisses the supreme court, revokes 49 controversial chavez decrees and announces presidential elections in one year. - latin american leaders meeting in costa rica for a trade summit denounce venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order. saturday, april 13: in washington, the organization of american states says it is prepared to apply against venezuela a charter requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy. - pro-chavez rioting breaks out in caracas and other parts of country. - the commander of venezuela's paratrooper brigade - chavez's old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim government. - chavez is transferred from an army base in caracas to the island of orchila, in the caribbean sea. - thousands of chavez supporters march towards the presidential palace. - carmona takes refuge at tiuna fort, southwest of caracas. - top military leaders say their support of carmona is conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and allowing chavez to leave venezuela freely. - carmona announces the restoration of the national assembly, as chavez cabinet members move into the presidential palace and hold a meeting. - carmona resigns the interim presidency, and chavez's vice-president, diosdado cabello, takes over as acting president. sunday: chavez leaves orchila island aboard a helicopter and heads to caracas. - chavez officially re-takes the presidency in an emotional presidential palace ceremony at 4:30 am (0830 gmt). 