Prior to Vlasov's announcement, Yeltsin delivered a well-received speech pledging that if elected, he would defend the republic from meddling by the national Soviet government, but refrain from clashing with Gorbachev. He is on record denouncing the brutal murders of non-Russian demonstrators by Soviet troops in 1989 and 1990, and has gone after Marshal Dmitri Yazov, who, says Mr. Yeltsin, must answer for Tbilisi and Baku. But the 60-year-old Soviet president may be surprised by the circumstances that greet him today, for the balance of political power in the country has shifted clearly in Mr. Yeltsin's favor. By Tuesday the regime was under fierce verbal attack not just from Mr. Yeltsin, but from tens of thousands of Soviet protesters, the leaders of many republics, and the governments of virtually every country in the world. The Russian Parliament convened for an emergency session Wednesday, and after three hours of debate, Mr. Yeltsin suddenly announced that the coup leaders were heading to the airport for an unknown destination. And some radicals want Mr. Yeltsin to take another, far more critical look at the entire union treaty he, Mr. Gorbachev and two other republican leaders had been expected to sign on Tuesday. Russian lawmakers cast ballots Friday night in a vote to determine whether populist Boris N. Yeltsin would become president of the Soviet Union's largest republic. Radical reformer Boris N. Yeltsin triumphed over opposition from Mikhail S. Gorbachev to win the presidency of the largest Soviet republic today in what he called Russia's social, economic and spiritual rebirth. Populist reformer Boris N. Yeltsin won the presidency of the largest Soviet republic Tuesday, overcoming opposition by Mikhail S. Gorbachev and declaring the start of Russia's social, economic and spiritual rebirth. But as president of the largest of 15 Soviet republics, Yeltsin will have a highly visible platform from which to wage his campaign for more radical reforms. Russian Deputy Alexander Liubimov, a well-known TV commentator, said Yeltsin's election would force Gorbachev to start dealing with another strong leader instead of shadows willing to defer to him. Boris N. Yeltsin, the newly elected president of the Russian republic, sat down with 130 legislators today to negotiate the makeup of a coalition government for the largest Soviet republic. Yeltsin, a frequent critic of Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his gradual reforms, was reported to have gained the last few votes he needed by offering to guarantee a place in his government for other factions. Yeltsin poses a substantial challenge to Gorbachev, both through his personal popularity and his demand that much authority be transferred from Gorbachev's central government to the republics. In Ottawa, Canada, on Tuesday Gorbachev told reporters he was somewhat concerned about Yeltsin's victory but encouraged by the new Russian president's vow to settle divisions in the Congress and work with the Kremlin leadership. Boris N. Yeltsin, the new president of the Russian Federation and a leading critic of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, said Thursday he will try to make peace in his personal feud with the Soviet president. However, at Thursday's session of the Russian Congress, Deputy Ivan Galushko from the Jewish autonomous region in the Soviet Far East said Yeltsin was overstepping his authority with some of his statements the day before. Just before the first of the negative articles appeared, Yeltsin's aides privately charged that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev personally had ordered a KGB smear against Yeltsin. If Yeltsin failed to win an absolute majority, he would be forced into a runoff with his main opponent, former Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov. Yeltsin's closest rival, former Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov was supported by the hard-line Russian Communist Party, and advocated a more gradual transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. 