     Speculation on a successor immediately centered on Transportation Secretary
Samuel Skinner, a Bush favorite and loyalist considered hard-nosed but not as
curt and combative as Sununu. Skinner headed Bush's 1988 campaign in
Illinois.;   Others mentioned as possible candidates for the job were Defense
Secretary Richard Cheney; Craig Fuller, a Republican consultant who was Bush's
chief of staff when he was vice president; and longtime Bush adviser Frederic
Malek.;   As chief of staff, Sununu has been given wide latitude by Bush to
manage domestic policy issues while the president devoted his attention to
foreign affairs.;   Sununu offered his resignation in a handwritten letter
given to Bush as the president was flying on Air Force One from Washington to
Bradenton, Fla., on Tuesday morning.;   "I have always said I wanted to serve
as chief of staff as long as I could contribute to your success and help deal
effectively with both the issues and the arrows," Sununu wrote. "Until
recently, I was convinced that even with the distorted perceptions being
created, I could be a strong contributor to your efforts and success.;   "But
in politics, especially during the seasons of a political campaign,
perceptions that can be effectively dealt with at other times can be -- and
will be -- converted into real political negatives. And I would never want to
not be contributing positively, much less be a drag on your success.";   Bush,
in a "Dear John" letter in response, praised the 52-year-old Sununu and said
he wanted him to stay in the White House as a counselor with Cabinet status
through March 1.;   "You have never wavered in your loyalty to us and more
importantly, your loyalty to the principles and goals of this administration.
You have indeed helped with the issues and you have intercepted many of the
'arrows' aimed my way," Bush said.;   Later, standing beside Sununu on Air
Force One, Bush told reporters, "He has taken a lot of hard shots that would
have landed on my chin.";   Despite the effusive praise from Bush, Sununu's
resignation came after Bush's son, George, informed Sununu last Wednesday that
he was becoming a liability. The conversation was reported Tuesday by the
Washington Post. Many political strategists saw the leak of the conversation
as a public signal to Sununu that he should resign.;   GOP consultant Charles
Black said it became clear Sununu had to go when he became the story and
prevented Bush's own message on the economy and other domestic issues from
getting through.;   "Every day the press was writing about Sununu and the
president wasn't getting anything done. . . . Hopefully the finger-pointing
and controversy is over and the president can focus on the domestic agenda,"
said Black.;   The resignation came amid Bush's struggle to arrest a sharp
decline in his public approval rating, fueled by persistent concerns that the
economy is headed into another recession and that the president has been
inattentive to domestic needs.;   One Sununu ally, Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill.,
suggested that Bush's popularity problems may have been a factor in Sununu's
departure. "I'd hate to think so, but that's certainly one possibility. That
job is the No. 1 flak-catcher, and when you catch enough flak you sometimes
get weighted down.";   House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., said
Bush shouldn't expect a White House shake-up to reverse his fortunes.
"Changing the nameplate of the president's chief of staff is not going to make
good things happen," he said.  
