11 Author: Sheldon Alberts OTTAWA - Canadian troops will hand over any enemy fighters they capture to the Americans, Art Eggleton said yesterday, dismissing concerns from Liberal backbenchers about the treatment of Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners by the U.S. military. At a joint meeting of the foreign affairs and defence committees, Liberals Marlene Jennings and John Godfrey challenged Canada's policy after Mr. Eggleton, the Minister of National Defence, said he is satisfied the United States is treating prisoners humanely and in accordance with international law. Next month, a battle group of 750 Canadian troops will join U.S. forces in Afghanistan. Mr. Godfrey, a Toronto MP, accused the Americans of violating international law by blindfolding and shackling prisoners who were transferred this week from a detention centre in Kandahar to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Mr. Godfrey said, When I see those hooded prisoners being put on planes to Cuba, I say to myself, 'Would we allow that, if Canadian troops were taken?' Ms. Jennings, a Montreal MP, demanded assurances that Canadian soldiers will not turn over any prisoners unless the U.S. guarantees they will not face the death penalty. Human rights groups have criticized the U.S. military's treatment of prisoners captured during its current cleanup operation in southern Afghanistan. The U.S. commanders consider the prisoners to be unlawful combatants as opposed to prisoners of war, a distinction that allows the U.S. to provide different treatment under international law. Mr. Eggleton said there is no evidence U.S. authorities have failed to provide humane care, and he said U.S. commanders have assured Canada they will follow international law. Yesterday, a Red Cross team arrived at the Guantanamo Bay detention centre to inspect the conditions of the 110 Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners being held there. Still, Mr. Eggleton said Canada wants further clarification on how the tribunals that judge the prisoners will comply with international law. One possible policy, he said, would be for Canadian troops operating with members of the U.S. Mr. Godfrey said it is unacceptable for Canada to allow any ambiguity in policy toward the U.S. treatment of prisoners. 