No More Kisses In light of Secretary of State Albright's imminent trip to the middle east, the New York Times , Los Angeles Times and Washington Post emphasize the deteriorating situation there. The NYT states that when Albright shows up on Tuesday, she will read the riot act to Yassir Arafat about cracking down on terrorism. Her goal will be to get Arafat to come out decisively and publicly for peace with Israel, telling him that there can be no more attempts at co-opting Hamas, and no more kisses of its leaders. Given that the troubles on the West Bank have not only frosted relations between Arafat and Israel, but also those between Israel and Egypt and between Israel and Saudi Arabia, the paper states that the U.S. is now facing the prospect that the moderate Arab coalition it built after the Persian Gulf war to contain Iraq and Iran is falling apart. The LAT focuses on new dissension within the Israeli government about whether or not Israel should continue to maintain forces in southern Lebanon, dissension fueled when an Israeli commando raid there late last week was ambushed, with twelve deaths the result. Perhaps the most striking indicator of a change of mood inside the government reported by the paper is the news that cabinet member Ariel Sharon, who as Defense Minister in 1982 got Israel entrenched in Lebanon in the first place, is among those urging a reconsideration of the deployment. The Wall Street Journal Outlook observes, In the U.S. job market, the balance of power is shifting to employees from employers, and states that the retention frenzy was triggered in part by previous waves of corporate downsizing, which left behind survivors who took stock of career options and used Internet job listings and intensified recruiting to land better offers, which in turn led to counter-offers and higher salaries. It's odd, however, that in repeating this charge, the Times didn't interview the man most closely associated with it, Christopher Hitchens, or refer to the book where he set it out, The Missionary Position. 