Becoming a captive after being defeated in a war apparently is bad, but being not treated as a prisoner of war [POW] is even worse. One US military officer in charge of the prisoners' camp said that the most of the prisoners are young people in their 20s or 30s, and that they are locked up separately in cells 2.5 square meters each. The first-day menu for the prisoners shows that they had a package of vacuum-packed Italian vegetable noodle and a package containing peanuts, granola bars, and a box of colorful, sugar-coated cereal, a favorite of American young people. While these foods are strange to the prisoners, the United States has indeed abided by the dietary rules that Muslims have to follow. Under the request of organizations, such as the International Red Cross, and the media, the United States let them go to Guantanamo to inspect the situation of the detainees there. If the above reports were true, then the treatment for the prisoners would be beyond reproach. Certain American people also maintain that the US way of treating the prisoners is not reproachable. Christopher, a physician working in the prisoners' camp, said: We really treat them well. A medium has this description for the Guantanamo prisoners' camp: The 2.5-square meter cement cell is way below the standards of cells built for American prisoners. Fully-armed watchful US prison guards and naval personnel make the rounds of inspection in the camp. A British newspaper maintains that the X-ray prison camp in Guantanamo is full of cruelties and torture. Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed. US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees. But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs. Evidently, after the September 11 pains, the US Government is harboring deep hatred for these prisoners. Now that these prisoners are in its hands, it is not likely that the US Government will let them off easily. If it chooses to characterize these detainees as POWs, then it must release some of them sooner or later and it is very likely that these people will again attack the United States with terrorist means. Because the prisoners have the dual identities being the enemies and the weaker parties, the US Government must not act as if it is venting its personal grudge against them while detaining them. These prisoners not only are citizens of the belligerent country, but also are citizens of nonbelligerent countries, even citizens of the United States' allies, such as Britain. Therefore, on the issue of defining these prisoners' status, the United States must test the attitudes of the international community, especially the attitudes of European countries. The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners. They say that that there are too many restrictions in the camp, the cells are too small...Mary Robinson, senior UN special commissioner for human rights, said: We must urge the United States to pay attention to respecting the obligations prescribed in international law. If the United States insisted that these prisoners are to be tried at a military tribunal, it is almost certain that they will be sentenced to death. US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld said that the Afghanistan's Taliban and al-Qaeda members are unlawful combatants, not POWs, and so the United States would not treat them as POWs and they would not enjoy any rights prescribed in the Geneva Convention on POWs. This is the first time in war history that terrorists have become war prisoners. What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions. The current treatment for the detainees: The prisoners were brought to the prisons in a brutal manner. The pictures clearly show that the prisoners in orange one-piece overall are blind-folded by thick black cloths, their hands and feet are tied up, and they were kneeling on the ground. Each prisoner is interned in a cell that is 2.5 square meters in size. This little cell will house two or more prisoners with the arrival of more captives in the future. When the prisoners are let out for exercise, take a bath, or go to the toilet, their hands must still be tied up, and two US soldiers will accompany them. Reprisal against the prisoners of war shall be prohibited. 