Zimbabwe suspended for rigging election SubHead: 'Bad decision,' Mugabe camp says Author: Robert Fife, Ottawa Bureau Chief OTTAWA - The Commonwealth suspended Zimbabwe for a year yesterday and called for new elections after concluding Robert Mugabe had rigged recent presidential elections. Mr. Mugabe has been widely condemned for rigging the election, held March 9-11. South African observers declared the election legitimate, despite contrary opinions from observers sent by the Commonwealth and the European Union. Though Zimbabwe's harshest critics had argued the country should be suspended before the elections, African countries, supported by Mr. Chretien, took a wait-and-see attitude, setting up the three-member committee to make a final determination after the election. Election observers reported thousands of voters were not given the chance to cast ballots in the election, while others were intimidated into voting for Mr. Mugabe's governing ZANU-PF party. In Harare, Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), whose leader Morgan Tsvangirai had challenged Mr. Mugabe, praised the Commonwealth for taking concrete action. Mr. Tsvangirai, who has been charged with treason for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mr. Mugabe, offered to hold talks with the President in an attempt to end two years of violence. What is critical at the moment is to see how we can restore legitimacy on a government that has stolen an election and that government must now deal with national questions of drought and food shortages, Mr. Tsvangirai said. In Canada, the opposition parties were highly critical of the Commonwealth, saying it should have suspended Zimbabwe indefinitely until Mr. Mugabe holds free and fair elections. Canada must push for punitive action against Mr. Mugabe and his band of thugs that have brutalized the people of Zimbabwe, which means an indefinite suspension from the Commonwealth, a ban on travel for Mugabe's cronies and to freeze their personal assets. The European Union and the United States have imposed a travel ban on 20 senior members of Mr. Mugabe's entourage and frozen their assets. At least 150 people have died and tens of thousands left homeless in attacks backed by Mr. Mugabe's government. 