Harsh detention for Afghan prisoners Taleban and al-Qaeda prisoners flown from Afghanistan to an American naval base in the Caribbean are being held in tough conditions of detention. A temporary detention centre called Camp X-Ray has been set up at the base in Guantanamo Bay, an isolated US outpost on the edge of Fidel Castro's Cuba. The prisoners are being housed in cells measuring 1.8 by 2.4 metres (six feet by eight feet) with open, chain-link walls, a concrete floor and wooden roof. Washington wants military tribunals to try the prisoners, and the cases are expected to be heard outside the US. As the base is located outside sovereign territory, the prisoners have no legal rights under the US constitution, and no right of appeal to federal courts. The cells had concrete floors, wooden roofs and wire mesh walls. Prisoners had a foam mat to sleep on, two towels - one for washing, the other to use as a prayer mat - and some form of chamber pot, he said. One person said: 'Are they kennels?', to which one of the military staff in charge said: 'No they're not kennels, they are cells, and they're within the bounds of the Geneva Convention. The first group to arrive - 20 prisoners described by US military officials as the worst elements of al-Qaeda and the Taleban - wore goggles covered with tape and had their hands tied. Hundreds of marines and military police have been flown to Guantanamo Bay to expand the compound to house up to 2,000 prisoners. Hunt continues American officials have named al-Qaeda and Taleban leaders killed or captured as frustration grows that some senior Taleban figures are reportedly slipping through the net. Among those who have not been questioned by the US military are three former Taleban ministers who turned themselves into the new Afghan authorities - only to be allowed to return to their homes. The most important is former Justice Minister Mullah Nuruddin Turabi - known to be close to Taleban leader Mullah Omar - former Defence Minister Mullah Ubaidullah and former Industry Minister Mullah Saadudin. 