President unleashes army, rocket launchers, MiG-21s SubHead: Rumblings of rebellion: Opposition aghast at 'state terrorism' Author: Jan Cienski HARARE, Zimbabwe - Elements of Zimbabwe's army began leaving their barracks yesterday in an ominous sign that Robert Mugabe intends to rig this weekend's presidential election and is preparing for a fight if the opposition challenges him. Meanwhile, a group of up to 800 veterans of Zimbabwe's independence war has asked for foreign help to mount a rebellion against Mr. Mugabe if he steals the election. Three MiG-21 fighters flew low over farmland in Mashonaland West in an apparent intimidatory display meant to underline the threat being spread by ruling party thugs: If President Robert Mugabe loses the election, we will go to war. Observers and the opposition worry Mr. Mugabe, the country's only President in 22 years of independence, is becoming increasingly reckless in his attempt to hold on to power. Already, his ruling Zimbabwean African National Unity-Patriotic Front party has moved to disenfranchise thousands of supporters of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. The government-controlled election watchdog, the Electoral Supervisory Commission, accredited only 300 of the 12,500 election monitors requested by the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. The party says 22 MDC election monitors have been abducted. This is our major concern, said Reginald Matchaba-Hove, head of the independent Zimbabwe Election Support Network. The official election watchdog refuses to indicate the number of ballots that will be issued, making it easier to stuff ballot boxes, and has not said where the polling stations will be located. The voting rolls include the names of as many as 80% of the people in Zimbabwe who have died in the past two years, while thousands of the living will not be allowed to cast their ballots. In Harare, an MDC stronghold, the government has cut the number of polling stations by as much as 35%, the party charged. The MDC says as many as 34 of its supporters have been killed since the presidential campaign began in January and fears are rising there will be an explosion of violence next week, no matter what the result of the election. The leaders of the Zimbabwean Liberators' Peace Forum, an association of mainly Matabele veterans who fought in the Rhodesian war through the 1970s, issued a dramatic request for help from both within Zimbabwe and beyond. Matabeleland has long been a bastion of resistance to Mr. Mugabe and an MDC stronghold. The appeal, which amounted to a de facto call to arms, risks being represented by Mr. Mugabe's government as proof of foreign military meddling in Zimbabwe. We are willing to defend the interests of the people of Zimbabwe at all costs and will not stand idly by if the election is clearly not free and fair, he said. 