72 Hours At Camp X-Ray GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba - It begins as a shiny speck in the southeast skies of the lone landing strip here at Gitmo, the oldest U.S. base overseas. They wear black baseball leg guards and bulletproof vests and carry M-16 rifles. Down the back ramp of the mammoth aircraft, the guards slowly unload the latest detainees from the war in Afghanistan, 34 altogether. Wearing bright orange wool knit caps, blacked-out goggles, earmuffs, white surgical masks, bright orange jumpsuits, denim jackets, beige mittens (taped around the wrists), handcuffs and ankle shackles, the detainees don't look natural. After a 25-hour flight of mostly sitting, the prisoners hobble along as the Marines, who look twice as big, walk them out and frisk them. Walk! the guards shout. They board buses that will take them to a ferry that will take them across Guantanamo Bay to a detention facility known as Camp X-Ray. A sign near the ferry slip conveys some of the strange vibe of Guantanamo, a 45-square mile naval base in which the detention camp comprises some 3 acres. Last Wednesday, the 10th flight from Kandahar to the southeastern tip of Cuba arrived, bringing the total number of detainees at Camp X-Ray to 288. A day later, another 12 came, effectively filling the camp to capacity. Base officials allowed reporters to record audio and report the landings live via cell phone for the first time since the flights began arriving Jan. The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees - on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards - the images created an international uproar. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denied the allegations, insisting that the detainees have it better here than in Afghanistan. 11. When the detainees arrive at Camp X-Ray, they are told they're in Cuba and then undergo a 45-minute intake process, which, like the airstrip landing, is monitored by the Red Cross. The detainees also get fingerprinted and photographed. Instead, base officials try to glean the prisoners' real names from the letters, as many tend to give multiple aliases during interrogations. A sign on a pole at the edge of the camp points the direction to Mecca. Base officials say there are Christian prisoners as well as Muslims. After prayer, the detainees' day goes like this: breakfast, a shower (every other day), sick call, noon prayer, lunch, recreation (15 minutes a couple of times a week), mail call, sunset prayer, dinner, evening prayer and bedtime around 9 p.m. Each meal the detainees get is considered halal, or religiously appropriate for Muslims. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards, characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as utter boredom. The guards mostly communicate with the prisoners via simple English commands and hand signals. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam, 39, speaks more with the detainees than almost anybody at the camp. As the Muslim chaplain, he ministers at the facility up to five hours every day. He says that with the start of the Muslim month of pilgrimage, during which the faithful journey to the holy city of Mecca, he detects more anxiety in the camp. Base officials are considering a special meal for March 10. Somebody asks Saiful-Islam if the relationship between the detainees and God has changed since their capture. Concertina wire and nine guard towers surround Camp X-Ray. The American flag is everywhere - painted on the guard towers, flying high in front of the facility. Unlike other parts of the base, the camp does not have a pretty setting. It is day two at X-Ray for the 34 newly arrived from Kandahar. A German shepherd and his handler patrol the camp's perimeter. Every so often a prisoner is led to one of five interrogation rooms, freshly built wood buildings with air conditioners and no windows. Three guards accompany him - one on either side and one behind. One of the guards puts a hand behind the head of the detainee, forcing him to look down. Except for an occasional spitting incident or threat, officials say, the prisoners are docile. Base officials suspect that the people already in custody pass the word along to the new arrivals that they will be treated okay. Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the prisoners. The security here I would consider tighter than death row in a prison in the United States. The hospital is several miles from Camp X-Ray, off Recreation Road. Along the way, if allowed, the detainees would get to see a bit of Americana, a portrait built over the past century. The growth of the base has left Camp X-Ray surprisingly close to a suburban-style military community of beige, green and yellow houses in subdivisions with names like Caribbean Circle and West Iguana. Also up the road is the W.S. Sampson Elementary School, replete with yellow school buses, the Morale Welfare and Recreation Cooper Field with baseball and soccer fields, and the base's outdoor movie house, which is playing the movie, The Majestic. Jerome says the hospital feels no different than a hospital in the states, save for the high security and the various languages the detainees speak, including French, Russian, Urdu and Arabic. While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that they're not regular patients. Fleet Hospital 20 has nine patients today. Just the other day, however, a surgeon took out the eye of a patient who had suffered a sports injury when he was younger. The story got international play because it seemed to underscore the fact that tensions between the Americans and the detainees were easing. The staff gives reporters a quick tour of the hospital, allowing photographs of some sections but not of the patients. The medical staff relies on linguists to help communicate with the patients, but they've also come up with their own inventions, such as a longhand list of English phrases and their Arabic counterparts. While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be inevitable: the death of one of the detainees. Not at the hands of the guards. Gen. Michael R. Lehnert, the commander of the prison project, says, We continue to work to improve living conditions for both the detainees and our security forces. For now, with the camp at capacity, flights here have stopped. 