African observers generally approved of his victory, while Western governments denounced it. Observer missions from South Africa, Nigeria, Namibia and the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) respectively, described the poll as legitimate - largely satisfactory and transparent, credible, free and fair. The Namibians went as far as to say Zimbabwe's election system was water tight, without room for rigging. The observations of the 14-member Southern African Development Community (SADC) Parliamentary Forum team differed considerably from the other African missions. In sharp contrast to other African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the elections fell short of regional expectations. The climate of insecurity obtaining in Zimbabwe since the 2000 parliamentary elections was such that the electoral process could not be said to adequately comply with the norms and standards for elections in the SADC region, the forum said in a statement. That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have been heavily critical. The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election failed to meet international standards. Norway Prime Minister Jan Petersen said in a statement that The presidential election in Zimbabwe has not satisfied the fundamental requirements for a democratic election. Mugabe's main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for Democratic Change, has rejected the outcome of the presidential poll. The government has rejected all criticism, describing the election as exemplary, free, fair and peaceful. France and Germany also indicated that the election had failed the 'free and fair' test. The Canadian prime minister, Jean Chretien, said the election does not look very good. If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been cheated through the election process, it is possible that some could resort to violence, said the foreign minister, Alexander Downer. 