A Brief History Jerusalem' s recorded history begins with its mention in Egyptian court records 4,000 years ago, but there had been human settlements here for centuries, probably millennia, before that. At the beginning of the second millennium b.c. , Jerusalem was a Canaanite mountain stronghold on a secondary trade route, far less important than biblical cities such as Hazor, Megiddo, Beth Shean, and Shechem. Biblical Jerusalem In the Bible, Genesis 14:18 -- 20 records that Abraham visited the city of "Salem" in approximately 1800 b.c. and was blessed by the city' s ruler, Melchzedik, who offered him bread and wine. The Bible describes how David' s soldiers conquered Jerusalem by discovering a water tunnel under the walls and using it to take the city by surprise. Perhaps because Jerusalem was in neutral territory not allotted to any of the twelve rival tribes of Israel, David made it the capital of his newly formed kingdom and brought the most talented artisans, dedicated priests, magical poets and musicians, and the most formidable soldiers from each of the tribes to live in his city. The Temple and royal palace were adorned with gold and ivory from Africa and with cedar from Lebanon; the beauties and glories of Jerusalem under Solomon have captivated readers of the Bible for almost 3,000 years. But with his death the empire collapsed, and the Israelite kingdom was divided into two separate, impoverished, often warring nations: Israel, with its capital at Shechem in the north, ruled by a series of northern dynasties; and the smaller kingdom of Judah, with its capital at Jerusalem, from which the Davidic dynasty continued to rule. The end of David' s dynasty came in 587 b.c. , when Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, invaded Judah to lay siege to Jerusalem. Jerusalem submitted peaceably to the rule of the Greeks in 332 b.c. under Alexander the Great and, subsequently, to his Hellenistic successors as well as the Egyptian Ptolomeys and the Syrian Seleucids. When Seleucid rulers outlawed Judaism, Jews led by Judah Maccabee and his brothers staged a revolution in 167 b.c. and, against all odds, restored the primacy of Jewish religious life in Jerusalem. Roman Jerusalem After the initial years of Roman administration and political infighting, Rome installed Herod (scion of a family from Idumea, a Jewish kingdom in the desert) as King of Judea. 30 he and his followers went for Passover to Jerusalem, which was in unrest at this time, dissatisfied with Roman domination. In a province rife with rebellion and retaliation, the execution in Jerusalem of yet another religious leader from the Galilee did not by itself have an immediate effect on history. Christian and Islamic Jerusalem For 60 years Jerusalem lay in ruins, until the Roman Emperor Hadrian ordered the city rebuilt as a Roman town dedicated to Jupiter. The ruins of Jerusalem were briefly liberated, but, in the end, Jewish resistance to Rome was defeated with great loss of life. The planned new Roman city, Aelia Capitolina, was built over the ruins of Herodian Jerusalem, and Jews were barred from residing there for all time. But the Roman Empire became Christian in the fourth century, and Jerusalem became a center of religion once again. Throughout Jerusalem, other spots important to Jesus' s life were commemorated with religious structures. Pilgrims came from all over the Roman (and, later, Byzantine) Empire during the following centuries, but the prosperity they brought lasted only until 614, when Persian armies overtook Judea and reduced Jerusalem to rubble again. Jerusalem continued under Islamic rule for the next four and a half centuries. They built many impressive churches during the term of the first Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, but in 1187 they were driven out by Muslim forces under the great warrior Saladin. During the Sixth Crusade (1228 -- 1229), the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II managed to secure Jerusalem for the Christians by negotiation. After they lost Jerusalem, a Mongol invasion swept through, and in 1244 the Mameluke dynasty of Egypt took control, ruling Jerusalem for the next 250 years. Much of the best Islamic architecture in the city was constructed in the Mameluke era, but the past thousand years had taken their toll: Jerusalem was unable to regain the prosperity it had enjoyed in earlier times. Jerusalem fell to the Ottomans in 1517, remaining under their control for 400 years. The Holy City remained a backwater until the 19th century, when renewed interest among Christian pilgrims made it the destination of thousands of travelers each year. 19th-Century Aspirations At the same time, many Jews sought religious freedom and fulfillment by moving to Palestine (as the Holy Land was traditionally called) and especially to Jerusalem. Jerusalem flourished during the early years of the Mandate. Modern neighborhoods, hospitals, schools, and the Hebrew University were built in West Jerusalem, the new Jewish enclave. But Arab opposition to new Jewish immigration and construction in Palestine led to increasing strife; by 1946, Jerusalem was an armed camp. In 1947 the United Nations voted for the partition of Palestine into two states, one Jewish and one Arab, with Jerusalem as an international city that belonged to neither. West Jerusalem, separated from the rest of the new Jewish nation, held out under siege for several months until Israeli forces secured a land corridor connecting the city to the coastal areas. Jews were evacuated from the Old City' s Jewish Quarter, and thousands of Arab families fled their homes in West Jerusalem. As a result of armistice agreements in 1949, Jerusalem was divided: West Jerusalem was to be under Israeli control, and East Jerusalem (including the Old City, with its Jewish, Muslim, Christian, and Armenian quarters) came under Jordanian authority. However, with the city partitioned by fortifications and barbed wire, no Israeli or Jewish pilgrims were allowed to visit the Western Wall or other Jewish sites in East Jerusalem. For the next 19 years, Jerusalem was two cities. Jerusalem' s mayor, Teddy Kollek, spent the next 25 years orchestrating a vast program of development, adding new cultural institutions and parks and instituting neighborhood restoration projects while tirelessly me diating the concerns of Jerusalem' s many communities. Today, as always, Jerusalem is a city of controversies: religious Jews in conflict with secular Jews; Palestinians calling for independence; many residents protesting a wave of high-rise development that many claim will turn the Holy City into a holy megalopolis. But the ideas and mystique that have always made this an extraordinarily special place rise above the ebbing and flowing concerns of present-day Jerusalem as it continues to tug at the world' s attention into the new millennium. 