22 - Frustrated by an international outcry over the American treatment of prisoners in Cuba, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld defended the United States' conduct at length today and dismissed the criticism as breathless armchair hyperbole. I am telling you what I believe in every inch of my body to be the truth, and I have spent a lot of time on secure video with the people down there, he told reporters, referring to the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where 158 prisoners from the war in Afghanistan are being jailed. It was prompted by a rising tide of international criticism after the Defense Department released photographs over the weekend that showed some of the prisoners kneeling before their captors, their legs in shackles, their hands bound in manacles, their mouths covered by surgical masks and their eyes blinded by large goggles with black tape. Critics said the United States was using sensory deprivation and other psychological control techniques to weaken the prisoners so that interrogations would be more fruitful. The International Committee of the Red Cross, in a rare break with its code of not publicly criticizing detaining governments, said the United States might have violated Geneva Convention rules against making a spectacle of prisoners by distributing the pictures, which were published worldwide. Amnesty International sought access to the prisoners in Guantanamo and said they should be allowed to have lawyers. Keeping prisoners incommunicado, sensory deprivation, the use of unnecessary restraint and the humiliation of people through tactics such as shaving them are all classic techniques employed to break the spirit of individuals ahead of interrogation, the organization said. Several governments joined the chorus, saying the prisoners should be granted prisoner of war status under the Geneva Convention. The Netherlands also urged Washington to recognize the detainees as prisoners of war, saying, In the fight, we need to uphold our norms and values. Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said the three British prisoners at the detention center, called Camp X-Ray, had no complaints about their treatment. It is not clear why the United States has not officially designated the detainees as prisoners of war, especially since Mr. Rumsfeld said they are essentially being treated as such. Mr. Rumsfeld said the Pentagon's clear priority with the prisoners was to extract information from them to prevent future attacks. And yet, officials at Guantanamo have said that no interrogation has taken place on the base and that the prisoners do not have lawyers. Asked what benefit the United States gets by not classifying the captives as prisoners of war, Mr. Rumsfeld said, I don't know enough of the legal technicalities to answer your question. Mr. Rumsfeld said one of the complicating factors was that the Geneva Conventions give protection to prisoners from countries but not from terrorist organizations, like Al Qaeda, to which some of the prisoners apparently belong. Officials have said the prisoners come from a range of countries, - Britain, Yemen, China, Saudi Arabia and Australia among them - and that has also complicated the legal picture. 