Dr. Ren Guoyu, an expert meteorologist at the National Climate Center of China, pointed out that the Kyoto Protocol was only the first step to resolve global warming during his interview with Xinhua News Agency. He indicated that there is a long way to go and a great deal of effort to put in before global warming can be successfully arrested. According to Dr. Ren, humans released excessive amounts of greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide, into the atmosphere in the past century, particularly in the past 50 years. This excessive emission of greenhouse gases has caused the mean global temperature to rise by 0.4 to 0.8 degree C in the past 140 years. If emission of greenhouse gases is not rigorously limited and is allowed to continue to climb, then the average global temperature may surge by 1.5 to 5.8 C. This disaster can only be averted if we all join in to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to stop global warming. In March, the new Bush Administration openly declared it would rescind its promise to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. The amount of greenhouse gases emitted by most developing nations in the past several decades only represents a small fraction of the total emission. It mainly requires the joint effort of industrialized nations to resolve global warming. He also pointed out: Although the Kyoto Protocol did not set a reduction target for China, however, China is very concerned about global climate change-related issues in recent years. It has significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions by efficiency improvement, energy conservation, and development of advanced energy technology. To implement the Kyoto Protocol, according to Dr. Ren, usually a country would incur an economic loss equivalent to 1 percent of its GDP when it tries to lower greenhouse emissions 1 percent. In the Bonn conference in July, Japan even made new demands regarding the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. During this conference, countries such as Japan, Russia, Australia, and Canada played the same tactic again to try to delay the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. As a reminder, Dr. Ren pointed out: The Kyoto Protocol is merely a gesture for mankind to stop global warming. Fundamentally, the targets set by the Kyoto Protocol are far less than what actually will take to effectively curb global warming. 