Stephanopoulos Analyzes His Own Crime There was former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos on ABC's This Week this morning, furrow-browed and heartbroken with all the evidence coming out against the president. Last week, when the Lewinsky story was only a few hours old, Stephanopoulos popped up on Good Morning America to demonstrate his concern. Is Chatterbox alone in thinking there is something strange and even disgusting about Stephanopoulos' eager show of independence from the president? Stephanopoulos wants to run for the Senate and doesn't want to seem a Clinton stooge. By lending credence to the Lewinsky charges, and treating Clinton's familiar defenses as the lies and half-lies they seem to be, Stephanopoulos shows he's not a fool. During the 1992 campaign, when Gennifer Flowers first brought Clinton's philandering to public attention, Stephanopoulos--as Clinton's chief spinner, distracter, and all-around bullshit artist--played a crucial role in discrediting Flowers and anyone else who tried to point out the truth, namely that Clinton had a disturbing zipper problem. Clinton has no character problem, Stephanopoulos declares. He said he had problems in his marriage, says Stephanopoulos, correcting Donaldson's deviation from the pre-scripted fudge-phrase of the day. (Today, of course, the president's defenders claim that Clinton admitted infidelity on 60 Minutes and that the fully informed voters simply didn't care.) Near the end of The War Room, Stephanopoulos gets a call from someone who apparently claims to have a list of Clinton paramours, which he is about to publicize. You might say that Stephanopoulos helped invent the philander-protection techniques that seem to have made Clinton so overconfident of his ability to not get caught. When Democrats wonder why there is so much resentment of Clinton, they don't need to look much further than the Big Lie about philandering that Stephanopoulos, Carville (and a cooperative campaign press corps) helped to put over in 1992. 