Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House officials said last night. The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. The one thing the climate policy would not do is require anything of anybody, sticking with the position Mr. Bush has held for more than a year on the climate issue: that firm limits on the so-called greenhouse gases would drag down the economy. On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Under the administration's proposed target, the growth rate of emissions of carbon dioxide would drop nearly 18 percent by 2012 - to 151 metric tons for each $1 million in gross domestic product, from the current level of 183 metric tons. Alluding to the date of the speech, Jennifer Morgan, the climate policy director for the World Wildlife Fund, called it a valentine to the coal and oil industry that will allow emissions to increase without any time frame, eternally. One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their emissions of greenhouse gases. The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required levels. There would be no similar limits on power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. In the face of lobbying from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea. An official at an energy company that had been pressing the White House to revise power plant rules said the best news was that there was something finally on the table to discuss. 