Chris Stetkiewicz NEW YORK 1996-08-20 The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting Tuesday , leaving economists and analysts pondering what the central bank might do next. Some analysts said that while Fed policy-makers resisted pressures this summer to raise short-term rates , economic data over the coming weeks may force them to raise rates later this year. However , recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in August , although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals. _ Before the Fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year , they better have a solid economic justification for doing that , _ said Sung Won Sohn , chief economist at Norwest Corp. _ Without the justifications , they would rather wait. _ Some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook , meaning the Fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears. _ I think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going , _ said Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor and currently an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. Gramley believes the U.S. economy is fundamentally strong but said _ some tightening will be necessary down the road. _ Martin agreed that the Fed is likely to remain on hold , _ not just because_of the election , but because this ( current economic scene ) is a central banker nirvana. _ Martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the Fed on hold over the next few months. 24 FOMC meeting. _ Despite signs of strong economic growth , inflation remains quite low historically , and Fed leaders have refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data. The absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the Fed will hold monetary policy steady. _ Strong job growth has persisted long enough that the Fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice , _ said Gary Schlossberg , senior economist at Wells Fargo Bank. Critics initially blasted the Fed for failing to raise rates at its July FOMC meeting when a report just two days later showed 239,000 new jobs created in June. The dip in payroll growth suddenly made that forecast look brilliant , analysts said. _ So far the Fed has done the right thing by keeping its powder dry , _ Schlossberg said. _ There is still a risk the Fed could fall behind the curve , but right_now it looks like the economic slowdown is happening. _ 