Not 'gonna be a long, long time' till you can be a rocket man The International Space Station is not exactly the Waldorf-Astoria. Welcome to the dawn of space tourism, where opportunities to view spaceship Earth from aboveare rare, visions of the future are grand, and Everyman seems willing to shed planet Earth, if briefly. Another eight to 10 people have expressed interest in a Soyuz trip to the space station, notes Tereza Predescu of Space Adventures, an Arlington, Va., company that arranges the flights. Russia's next resupply flight is scheduled for October, and two Americans are vying for the passenger seat: former National Aeronautics and Space Administration associate administrator Lori Garver and boy-band 'N Sync's Lance Bass. There is a lot of pent-up demand, at least emotionally among a large number of people to journey into space, says John Logsdon, of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. For example, in 2000, Harris Interactive surveyed Americans' and Canadians' willingness to travel into space as tourists. Extrapolating from the results, Space Adventures, which commissioned the study, estimates that 10,000 people a year would be willing to pay $100,000 apiece for a quick up-and-down suborbital flight, a la Mercury astronaut Alan Shepard. If they received the trip as a promotion or gift, 80 percent of the respondents said they'd take an intercontinental space-plane, 70 percent would take a space-station tour or an orbital flight, and 74 percent would be willing to take a suborbital journey. You need a strong, growing US space transportation system, and the federal... decision that it's in the national interest to fund... a second generation reusable launch vehicle to supplant the shuttle at a sufficiently low cost that it would be commercially viable, he says. Out of that effort would come the rocket or rockets that would service commercial passenger flights. Some 20 companies and groups worldwide are in a competition for a $10 million purse offered to the first firm that can build and fly a two-stage, reusable rocket that can carry three people on a suborbital flight and be refurbished for its next flight within two weeks. Modern barnstormers Noting that Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking trans-Atlantic solo flight was a response to the offer of an aviation prize, he adds that within six years of that flight, commercial passenger flights became common. Indeed, Space Adventures already has payments from roughly 100 customers willing to fly with astronautical barnstormers once a winner emerges, perhaps as early as 2004 or 2005. The contest already is stimulating a range of related efforts, ranging from states trying to set up space ports for tourism flights, to Federal Aviation Administration development of licensing requirements for private commercial launch facilities and passenger operations. 