's agreement to acquire 51% of Sansui Electric Co. proves that foreign companies can acquire Japanese companies -- if the alternative for the Japanese company is extinction. Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail, because unlike Sansui, which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges, most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held. But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies. If the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies weren't deterrents enough, webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers. Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour. Some of Sansui's fellow audio-specialty companies, such as Aiwa Co. and Pioneer Electric Corp., responded to the challenge by quickly bringing out mini-component products of their own, by moving heavily into the booming compact disk businesses or by diversifying into other consumer-electronics fields, including laser disks or portable cassette players. While competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories, Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia. Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui's president. But even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain. Yoshihisa Murasawa, a management consultant for Booz-Allen & Hamilton (Japan) Inc., said his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. Sansui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck's electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an original equipment maker basis for sale under other companies' brand names. He said Polly Peck will greatly expand Sansui's product line, using Sansui's engineers to design the new products, and will move Sansui's production of most products other than sophisticated audio gear offshore into Polly Peck's own factories. 