Their curiosity pushed them to build vessels that were strong enough to ford the open seas and reach these islands, marking the start of the long legacy of Mediterranean seafaring. They eventually reached the islands, and founded colonies on the islands in the northernmost part of the Aegean Sea. An important early material, obsidian, was discovered on the island of Milos. Cycladic Culture At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the Cyclades islands. Santorini (Thira), the next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. In the wake of this tremendous natural upheaval, the Aegean Islands next came under the influence of the Mycenaeans (at around 1300 b.c. ), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland. They held sway over islands off the northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual. The preeminent islands of this era were Delos, a sacred island and center of religion ruled by Athens; Samos, ruled by the tyrant Polycrates; and Naxos, whose ruler Lygdamis undertook some major building projects. From a power base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and set their sights on the Cyclades. The island communities were undecided about which side to back for a time. The Persians were defeated, and Athens duly punished the islands that had turned against it. Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of Delos. Although the islands saw little action, as the war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power. Before the end of the war in 401 b.c. , many islands had already transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II of Macedon. Although in 88 b.c. , Mithradates made a swift and successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands, the next major power change brought influence from the West. 95, St. John arrived on Patmos, a small rocky island in the Dodecanese, as a political prisoner. The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by waves of invaders. In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army forcefully enlisted the men of the islands. By the time of the Crusades, many of the Aegean islands had been practically depopulated. While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands. This created a pattern seen today throughout the Aegean of a small port (skala) which serves an inland settlement or chora, making it easier to protect the island from attack. The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco Sanudo on Naxos. The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and trade. They began the process of building their strong citadels, and reinforcing the Christian faith on the islands. By the end of the 13th century, they began their first raids on the Aegean Islands. They then set their sights on the islands of the Knights of St. John and, after an unsuccessful siege in 1480, they finally ejected the knights from the Dodecanese in 1522. In 1566, they wrested Chios from the Genoese, bolstering their hold on the eastern Aegean Islands, but the Cyclades remained in Venetian hands for another generation or more -- Tinos was the last to fall in 1715. The Ottomans brought new influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean. In 1770, Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774. The Aegean Islands played their part. The Cyclades and the Sporades island chains were also included in this new state. The Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the Dodecanese islands to the Italians. Greece took this opportunity to absorb the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean and to add Macedonia to its mainland territories. Many had to leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the Greek-ruled islands just offshore. Thousands of people arrived with little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the resources of the islands. His forces made a series of attacks from their bases in the Dodecanese islands, including sinking a Greek naval vessel in the harbor of Tinos Town, but they only succeeded in strengthening the resolve of the population against them. Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the islands. After the war, in 1949, the Dodecanese islands finally became part of the Greek nation. The struggle bypassed most of the islands, although there was fierce fighting on Samos. The Aegean Islands, which for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of several islands came close to collapse. Many Greek islanders chose to leave rather than live in poverty and terror, and many made new homes in the United States and Australia. The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers. Airfields have been constructed on a number of the islands, and road systems have been expanded and im proved. Politically, the 1990s have been relatively quite times for the islands, although the divorce of Greek prime minister Andreas Papandreou and his subsequent marriage to a much younger woman caused consternation within conservative Greek society. 