A report about settlement activity in Palestinian territories has confirmed that 36 new settlement sites--settlement enclaves--have been created since Sharon became Prime Minister of Israel less than a year ago. The annual report published by the National Bureau for Defending Land and Resisting Colonization in cooperation with the International Solidarity Establishment for Human Rights said that the nuclei of 36 new settlements were established from March 2001 to the end of November 2001 in various parts of the West Bank. Also the report, whose findings were announced at a press conference yesterday, noted that three military positions were turned into civilian settlements and work had started on a new settlement called Giv'at Sal'it in the southern valleys region. The report also noted that work on bypass roads continued at a rate faster than that of the government of Barak who gave free rein to settlement activities. He pointed to the allocations in the Sharon Government's budget for supporting and widening settlements and building new ones, despite the crisis and recession from which Israel's economy suffers. He said: At a time when Israel's economic growth rate declined to 1.5 percent and the budgets of the Ministry of Labor and Welfare and other ministries were cut, Sharon's government maintained its support for settlements and increased it to compensate for the growing exodus from settlements. He stressed the need to concentrate on resisting settlement activity, settlers and their militias, and abstaining from subjecting this file to any discussion as a condition for halting the intensified settlement activities and removing existing settlements. Advocate Faris Abu-Hasan pointed to the violation of international laws represented in settlement activity and settlement building, and to Israel's continuing refusal to respond to international appeals and violation of relevant international laws. He explained that settlement building constituted two grave violations of international law, especially the Geneva Convention, and pointed to international law provisions that forbid moving population of the occupying state to the occupied territories. He said: There are two grave violations, the first concerns settlement building and the transfer of settlers to the Palestinian territories on which tens of settlements have been built. The second is Israel's enacting of laws that facilitate expropriating Palestinian land and settlement activity, a matter that is considered among the war crimes. 