It is not enough to proclaim, even in the Constitution, that one peso is worth one dollar, for that to be really the case. The linking to the dollar, as a guarantee of stability, was meant to rid them of the hyperinflation running at 2000 percent a year they had experienced during the 1970s and 80s. Introducing the currency board system in 1991 obliged the central bank to guarantee the pesos in circulation with foreign currency reserves, in the same way as issuing bodies used to only issue notes to the equivalent of the gold reserves they held. Hence the official parity between the peso and the dollar until 1 December 2001 when it became necessary to introduce exchange controls with a devastating effect. Michael Mussa, chief economist with the IMF until last April, recognizes this: If we had paid more attention to the growing budgetary deficit and national debt between 1996 and 1998, Argentina would have been in a much better position to absorb the impact of the devaluation of the Brazilian real. Other countries live on a currency board system, most notably Hong Kong. But this Chinese territory has an extremely open economy, to the point where its exports exceed its GDP, thereby facilitating the influx of foreign currency. Second paradox: The self-proclaimed parity between the peso and the dollar never enabled the government and even less private borrowers to obtain credit terms to match those enjoyed by the Americans. Argentine pension funds have enjoyed interest rates as high as 35 percent over recent months: No less than 45 percent of the national debt estimated at between $130 and $150 billion is held by the Argentines themselves. Appeals were already made to the creditors during the first phase of the debt rescheduling involving the $55 billion held by Argentine funds and that was completed at the end of November. At the same time private debtors who became indebted in a strong currency would find themselves ruined by a peso devaluation. This is why dollarization has generated such support among politicians: From former President Carlos Menem, today leader of the most influential Peronist faction, to new Finance Secretary Miguel Kiguel, a former banker, charged along with Domingo Cavallo with restoring order to public finances. The final switch to the dollar would stabilize relations between creditors and debtors. But neither dollarization nor the currency board provides a guarantee of low interest rates, as there will always be an Argentine risk. 