The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year, Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written. Between now and 2008, the government's environmental initiative will be given concrete form in a report to the Storting this spring, in which an early quota system will occupy a central place. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. According to the United Nations' climate panel, in the next 10 to 20 years changes in the climate will be almost unaffected by what we do in the way of initiatives in the next few years to reduce emissions of climate gases. The explanation is that the increased concentration of climate gases in the atmosphere and the slowness of the climate system will make a certain degree of global warming unavoidable. Will climate changes produce new types of pests that will create problems? All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. Even if developing countries have contributed to these climate problems to just a slight degree, they will nevertheless bear the greatest burden. Norway and other industrialized countries, on the other hand, have fairly good prospects of grappling with climate changes because we have an economy to put necessary measures to work. In the Sem statement the coalition government warned of a more offensive climate policy. The elements in a more offensive climate policy are: Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. There exists the potential for significant reductions in climate gas emissions in Norway that will not produced with today's resources. A quota is a right to emit a certain quantity of climate gases during a certain period and this right can be sold on a market. Many countries, among them Denmark, Great Britain, and Sweden, are already under way developing early quota systems. In addition to being effective, an early quota system would also give business and industry useful experience before the international quota system following the Kyoto Protocol comes into effect in 2008. In the government's work to put the quota system into shape in Norway, we are now discussing a number of problems. The possibility of cooperating with other countries' early quota systems. Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. In addition to producing climate benefits, such measures will contribute to development and reduced local pollution in poor countries. This gives us a special responsibility in climate policy-not least vis-a-vis the poorest countries. 