USA : INTERVIEW $- Spyglass device profit seen later. 1997-03-31 Spyglass Inc said Monday its move to link devices other than personal computers to the Internet is continuing on target , but its return to profitability will likely come later than originally expected. _ We felt '97 and '98 would be years that we would actually invest in the business , and then we believe thereafter we will return to profitability , _ Spyglass chief executive Doug Colbeth said in an interview. Spyglass said last December it expected to post a loss in the first two quarters of its fiscal 1997 , which began October 1 , 1996 , before returning to profitability in the second half. Spyglass is striving to connect a wide range of _ devices _ to the Internet $-- everything from gas pumps to vending machines to cellular phones. The company reported a profit of $0.27 a share for fiscal 1996 ended September 30. _ It really feels like things are progressing along like what we said in October , and we do_ n't see any tremendous variance off that , but remember , this is a very new market , _ Colbeth said at the Spyglass headquarters in Naperville , outside of Chicago. Spyglass said its professional services division , which makes the software work on a customer's particular device , is expected to account for 30 percent of its business. Colbeth said Spyglass is the leader in embedded technology but keeps a close eye on the rear-view mirror , especially on Microsoft Corp and Cisco Systems Inc. _ We do believe there will be 10 or 15 companies starting up , and we have tremendous respect for that , _ Colbeth said. _ What we focus on more is what is Microsoft doing , what is Cisco doing , because they want to build the infrastructure as well. _ Nonetheless , Colbeth said he is convinced companies will continue to connect everything using Internet technology , as it is much more cost-effective to maintain information and systems using one format. _ I do_ n't ever worry that 10 years from now we_ 'll look back and there are no devices connected , _ Colbeth said. _ They will be connected , and I just want to make sure it_ 's our technology inside and I want to make sure the infrastructure is strong enough for devices. _ ( ( $-- Chicago newsdesk , 312-408-8787 ) ) 