10 - A C-17 Globemaster cargo plane carrying 20 heavily guarded Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners left a Marine Corps base in southern Afghanistan today on its way to the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the first wave of hundreds of detainees who will be held there. The Pentagon provided few details about the flight, but senior military officials said more than 40 specially trained military police officers guarded the prisoners on the flight, which was expected to make one stop before reaching Cuba, possibly as early as Friday morning. Pentagon officials said some prisoners might also be sedated during the more-than-20-hour flight, but it was not clear whether that had happened. A Pentagon official said earlier this week that the United States did not consider the detainees prisoners of war, but that they were still being afforded the protections under the Geneva Convention guidelines. Pentagon officials also said today that the United States was preparing to send a force of more than 100 soldiers, many of them Special Operations forces, to the Philippines to help train Filipino troops to fight Muslim militants from the Abu Sayyaf group. Though the American forces are expected to be involved initially in advising and training Filipino counterterrorist units, senior American military officials have said they could become involved in direct military action if the Philippine government requested it. Amnesty International issued a statement today saying that sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight would violate international standards prohibiting cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. But he defended the use of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan. Military officials also said John Walker Lindh, the American who was captured with Taliban forces near Mazar-i-Sharif, was not among the prisoners transferred today. American forces in Afghanistan were holding a total of 371 prisoners today, including 351 at Kandahar and 19 at Bagram air base north of Kabul. But the number keeps rising as American military and intelligence officials continue interviewing thousands of prisoners held by anti-Taliban militias. Senior military officials have said they are increasingly concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban and Al Qaeda forces. 