As Zimbabweans go to the polls this weekend to re-elect or oust Robert Mugabe, the only leader the country has ever known, the question of who will win the election seems almost secondary to how the loser and his followers will respond. But a surge in political violence and accusations that the governing party changed election laws to rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans, election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final tally. Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government officials and military leaders that they would not allow this former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political party, the Movement for Democratic Change. In a television interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of a Tsvangirai government intolerable. State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's government of numerous human rights violations during the election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF officials. Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages and unemployment. Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mugabe. Political analysts say the charges may have laid the groundwork for Mugabe to jail Tsvangirai as a last-ditch effort to stay in power should he lose the election. Opposition officials say that 22 of their polling agents have been abducted in the past week, and a surge in violent attacks in swing districts could persuade enough opposition supporters to vote for ZANU-PF to ensure Mugabe's victory. ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the opposition. Tsvangirai said at a news conference Thursday night that if he won the election, he would not prosecute Mugabe. 