A couple of weeks ago, the federal government distributed a colourful announcement in newspapers across the land proclaiming that the Earth is getting warmer and that implementing the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, on the targeted reduction of so-called greenhouse gases, would fix things. Ten days ago, when asked about Kyoto at the now famous Team Canada press conference in Moscow, Premier Ralph Klein produced a letter indicating that all the premiers, except the ever-distinct Quebec, opposed Kyoto. A few days later in Munich, provincial opposition was hedged with qualifications: The NDP premiers of Saskatchewan and Manitoba apparently thought the principles of Kyoto were fine. Herb Dhaliwal, the federal Energy Minister, weighed in with even more qualifications: Some important details have to be worked out before Canada ratifies the Kyoto Protocol, he said. According to Jean Chretien, the desire of the federal government is to sign it. Lorne Taylor, the Alberta Environment Minister, estimated the costs of Kyoto to the Canadian economy to be somewhere between $25-billion and $40-billion a year. He was alluding to the great money laundering operation whereby the federal government transfers cash from productive provinces such as Alberta and dispenses it in places such as Quebec. At the same conference, Taylor's federal counterpart, David Anderson, announced that the Alberta numbers were absurd. Implementing Kyoto would cost a paltry $500-million, he said, and added more ominously that the issue, technically, is that international relations fall within the purview of the federal government. Canadians know, with a certainty approaching perfection, that the federal government is incompetent when it comes to offering even order-of-magnitude guesses. Taylor may have offered a more prudent guess, but the fact is, accurate estimates of the costs of policies designed to reduce selected gas emissions are impossible. The fact is, Kyoto is without principles and no one has a clue what it means. Swelling the population of envirocrats in Ottawa means that the sole beneficiary is the federal government. 