USA : Chrysler plans new investments in Latin America. Tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for South America , including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in Brazil and the expansion of a Jeep plant now being built in Argentina. Roughly one third of the total investment , or about $126.6 million , will come from Chrysler's suppliers , who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy , Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said. _ We do_ n't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets , _ added Thomas Gale , Chrysler's executive vice president of international operations. _ We_ 're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities. _ Eaton said the investments will boost Chrysler's sales in the Mercosur free-trade zone , which groups Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay. But the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the Mercosur market away from rivals General Motors Corp. , Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG , he said. _ We are targeting very specific market segments , _ he said. _ We do_ n't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application. _ The new Brazilian plant , which will be Chrysler's third limited-production facility in South America , will assemble the automaker's all-new Dakota compact pickup truck for sale in Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay , the countries in the Mercosur free-trade zone. Comments: essential In Argentina , Chrysler said it will add production of about 6,000 Jeep Cherokees a year at a plant now under construction in the Cordoba province. Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler by opening plants in Latin America include Dana Corp. , Johnson Controls Inc. , Lear Corp. , Lear Corp. Eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country Mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade. _ We think this is a major growth area , _ Eaton said. _ It_ 's politically and economically a stable region , we think with particularly rising consumer buying power. _ Including a small plant in Venezuela that assembles Cherokees and Neon small cars from kits , the investments announced Tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler and its suppliers have made in South America , the company said. 