US begins flying Afghan prisoners to Cuba WASHINGTON: The US military on Thursday began flying al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners under heavy guard from Afghanistan to jail at the American Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a military spokesman said. An Air Force C-17 cargo plane with 20 of at least 371 detainees being held in Afghanistan departed Kandahar air base at about 11 am EST (1600 GMT), Marine Corps Maj. He declined to say when the first prisoners might arrive at facilities surrounded by razor wire at the US Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay. US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told reporters that major security precautions were being taken in moving the prisoners, including hard-line, anti-Western followers of fugitive guerrilla leader Osama Bin Laden. Lowell said some small-arms fire was directed at US troops on the Kandahar base after the aircraft took off in the early evening Afghanistan time, but that the C-17 was not fired upon. A US Marine spokesman in Kandahar told CNN late on Thursday that the gunfire came from snipers that penetrated the outer perimeter of the base and was not believed to be linked to the transfer of prisoners. In Washington, US defense officials earlier said that unprecedented security -- including chains and possibly sedation and hoods -- might be used in transporting the prisoners, who include members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda guerrilla network. One of the officials, who asked not to be identified, said that planning called for the prisoners, not yet charged with crimes, to be manacled together and outnumbered by specially trained guards carrying incapacitating stun guns. The human rights advocacy group Amnesty International expressed concern about reports that the prisoners may be drugged, hooded and shackled, saying that they must be treated with full respect for international standards. Rumsfeld told reporters on Thursday that every effort would be made to secure hardline prisoners, many considered dangerous and possibly suicidal followers of Bin Laden. The US military has so far taken control of more than 300 prisoners at a base in Kandahar and others at Bagram air base near Kabul, at Mazar-i-Sharif and aboard the Navy helicopter assault ship USS Bataan in the northern Indian Ocean. The Pentagon refused to discuss details of the transfer, and Defence Department spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said on Thursday that no announcements would be made until the first detainees arrived at the secluded base, where a high-security, barbed wire-enclosed facility is being built. Hundreds of US military police and Marine Corps reinforcements have been flown to the Gitmo base, as it is called, in Cuba and prisoners will be held inside a compound ringed by two fences topped with razor wire. 