But the detention by US forces of Australian Taliban fighter David Hicks has provoked tensions that could fray the bilateral goodwill. Mr. Hicks is one of a handful of Westerners - including three British fighters - who fought with the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Not only has Australia's opposition Labor Party called for Hicks, currently held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to be returned home, but a Supreme Court justice has described Hicks as a casualty of his own government's attempt to maintain favor in Washington. Clearly, if it were not for our relations with the US, we would be protesting his continued imprisonment without proper trial, says Justice John Dowd, a former conservative attorney general who is also president of the Australian chapter of the International Commission of Jurists. The Australian government is, frankly, pathetic in that, for the argument of convenience, we are letting this man be held in conditions that clearly violate established conventions on the treatment of prisoners. Opposition justice spokesman Darryl Melham says the Australian government's refusal to demand consular access to its citizen compares poorly with British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw's immediate insistence that three British nationals captured with Al Qaeda should face neither a military tribunal nor the death penalty. The Americans seem to have retreated from an earlier position of the death penalty for foreigners, but we are still worried about the extent to which this guy's legal rights are being subjugated to the Australian government's shuttle diplomacy with the US. If Hicks and other foreign captives receive markedly different treatment to Walker, even though all men served the same Taliban, Melham predicts damage to the international coalition against terrorism. Now he awaits an uncertain fate and is getting little sympathy from the Australian government. Mr. Williams says neither the US nor Australia is in a position to begin a prosecution against Hicks, acknowledging that he may not have committed any offenses under Australian law. You're now getting a lot of callers saying he is an Australian citizen, and Australia is not the 51st state of America, she says. 