On the afternoon of August 29, after several delays due to various causes, Japan successfully launched its H2A rocket No. This milestone puts Japan's aerospace development program back on track. However, these two rockets are primarily used to launch low orbit satellites. In order to launch large stationary satellites, Japan developed the H series rocket. In order to compete with the United States, Europe, and China, Japan decided to drastically reduce its costs, especially in every aspect of rocket design and manufacture. In November 1999, a multi-purpose satellite was launched by H2 rocket No. After this incident, Japan began to redesign the main engine of the H2 rocket. In addition to carrier rockets, Japan also invested heavily in the development and utilization of various satellite technologies. Japan wishes to build a $21 billion per year aerospace industry centered on commercial satellite development. In the field of satellite communications, Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) spent $310 million to develop the ETS-8 (Engineering Test Satellite 8) satellite. This satellite doubled the capacity of the test satellite previously launched by Japan. This program not only puts Japan in the lead in providing new mobile communication services in the Asia-Pacific region, but also allows Japan to test some new satellite communication techniques to be introduced worldwide. A Japanese made H2A rocket will launch this satellite in 2002. Japan also has a huge space power plant plan. In addition, it also plans to develop 12 satellites, a new generation of unmanned space lab, a space station supply system, and a space shuttle in the next 5 years. In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program. Between 1970 and the end of 1999, Japan launched a total of 66 satellites. They include a spy satellite, a data relay satellite to transfer data between satellites, an unmanned universe lab system, a test satellite for communications and broadcasting, an observation satellite for environmental protection, Kibo the Japanese experimental module of the space station and its supply system, and the H2A carrier rocket to launch all the spacecraft mentioned earlier. 