There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai. After months of fear and intimidation, Zimbabweans streamed to the polls this weekend in record numbers to cast their votes in the country's first contested election since independence 22 years ago. Many arrived at overburdened polling stations in the early hours of the morning and waited in the hot sun for the entire day without food. That was my bed, says Janet, a Harare secretary, who waited for more than 27 hours at a polling station in the impoverished Harare suburb of Kuwadzana. Even as voters went to the polls over the weekend, the intimidation and attempts at rigging continued. The government slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party strongholds. In Kuwadzana, there were seven polling stations for about 55,000 people. Rural Bindura had 41 polling stations for a smaller number of people. Now the country's 5.6 million voters are waiting anxiously for the results of the poll to be announced, although the voting, which was supposed to end Sunday, may stretch on for days. The question foremost in the minds of most Zimbabweans is whether attempts to rig the election through voter intimidation, last- minute election-law changes, and outright fraud have succeeded. Mr. Murphy points to the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition rallies in many districts as just a few examples. Edward Murchabaiw arrived at a Rushinga polling station at 6 a.m. in a wheelbarrow, his emaciated frame drowing in a faded blue suit-jacket. Some polls stayed open all night, with people voting by flickering candlelight or under harsh fluorescent bulbs. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against him, said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands in the open-handed signal of the MDC. In rural areas, many polling stations stood empty by midday. The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse. 