The conference in New York, which dealt with a ban on demand for light arms, and the Genoa Conference which had a much wider and extended agenda, had two common features between them. After two weeks of discussion and exchange of views at the New York Conference, it was decided to pay heed to the resolute demands advanced by the majority of the participants, who emphatically insisted on the imposition of a ban on the sale of light weaponry. Critics of the meeting, on the margin of the conference, up held the view that the American government, instead of heeding the wishes of international community, and protecting the security of world nations, and above all the safety of its own citizens, has paid more attention to the interests of corporations and huge arms producers and military-industrial complexes that reap tremendous profits annually from the sale of such armaments. The governments attending the conference had a long and varied agenda, including: economic globalization, the anti-missile shield defense project, the Kyoto Protocol and environmental protection, the political and military crises in the Middle East, the Balkans, and Afghanistan, moratorium on the accumulated debt of the poor countries, and... [as published] It can safely be claimed that the events in Genoa have influenced [overshadowed] the very conferences in New York and Bonn; whereas, from the onset, the weak results of Genoa was foreseeable for most observers. Bonn Conference, America had relentlessly demonstrated its paradoxical [as published] [controversial] position and particular stance opposed to that of other developed states by her previous abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol. Whereas, beforehand, it was anticipated and hoped that the agreements reached at Genoa would help bring about beneficial results for the Bonn conference as well. What, however, was most remarkable in the conferences in New York and Genoa, was the fact that most decisions made, were based on interests and tastes of particular groups [lobbies]. The remarkable feature of this conference was the joint resolution adopted by 180 countries worldwide --- in regard to protection of environment, and above all reducing the emission of greenhouse gases ---, which has isolated America in an undeniable way. It was due to this isolation that America, in spite of discrediting [undermining] the Kyoto Protocol and declining to comply with the Bonn Conference [resolution], was forced to at least make a promise to cooperate in preventing an increase in air pollution. To recap, if there ever existed any possibility that at the conferences of New York and Genoa questions regarding: promotion of world security, improvement of economic conditions, defusing regional and global crises and conflicts, checking unleashed competition for rearmament, reduction of the gap between the mainstream and peripheral countries, and... could be addressed and appropriate, serious, and worthy measures for their solution could be adopted, the opportunity was very easily lost and the meetings flopped completely. As regards the recent conference (Bonn Meeting), although the past gatherings like the Hague meeting and Kyoto conference have proved to be failed experiences, nevertheless as the climatic and atmospheric crises are growing more serious, one can be optimistic and hopeful about the success of such protocols and pacts, and implementation of the agreements, even though they are not protected by any sanctions. 