a controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows los angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent demonstrators they are arresting. this time, however, the outcry -- including the videotapes of police in action -- comes from anti-abortion protesters with operation rescue, whose members tend to see themselves as law-and-order conservatives. in introducing a measure to limit the police use of force in arresting nonviolent protesters, william armstrong, colorado's conservative republican senator, decried pain-compliance as something we expect to hear about in nicaragua or nazi germany -- but not in the united states of america. meanwhile, police officers, many of whom are sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause, claim that religious zeal -- and perhaps the use of muscle relaxants -- has given operation rescue anti-abortion protesters an unusually high tolerance to pain -- or even a martyr's appetite for it. on a recent morning, for example, the los angeles police academy gym echoed with the unmistakable sounds of force being exerted, as pairs of recruits, dressed in dark blue sweats, kicked, jabbed, swung their night sticks, or grappled one another into chokeholds or pain-compliance holds. as operation rescue built momentum, engaging in civil disobedience at clinics around the country, the allegations of police brutality increased: * in san diego, an officer reportedly moved through the demonstrators singing: don't try to understand 'em, just round 'em up and brand 'em. * in pittsburgh, women claimed they were sexually molested by officers. * in west hartford, conn., officers removed their badges and name tags -- purportedly to avoid cutting demonstrators -- and then allegedly hauled protesters away with come-along holds, by lifting them with sharp-edged plastic handcuffs, or with crotch carries in which a night stick is stuck between the protester's legs. robert dornan (r-garden grove) read into the congressional record a column by william f. buckley jr. comparing the west hartford demonstrations to civil rights demonstrations in alabama three decades ago: it is hard to believe that bull connor, directing white redneck policemen, caused more brutality in the treatment of blacks than was caused by the police of west hartford in their treatment of members of operation rescue. 