Federal officials delayed closing a troubled Colorado savings and loan largely because President Bush's son was on its board, a former federal bank regulator charged in a published report Wednesday. Mowbray, who retired the month that Silverado closed, denied Moroney's allegations Tuesday, saying: Neil Bush being on that board had no effect on our decisions. While his siblings would scatter when their parents ordered that yard work be done, recalls Marvin Bush, Neil would step up and say, 'Yeah, great.' Despite Mr. Bush's youth and inexperience in banking matters, former Silverado officials say Mr. Bush was no less able a board member than the others. Former Silverado board member Diane Ingels says Mr. Bush was a very diligent director who met with other directors and with management to enhance his understanding. Thomas Ashley, a longtime friend of President Bush, confirmed today that he's been giving advice to Neil Bush since last winter on the controversy surrounding the president son's role in the collapse of a Denver savings and loan. The Denver Post reported in today's editions that Ashley, a college classmate of George Bush's from Yale, had talked to the younger Bush at the president's behest before Neil Bush was questioned by federal banking regulators. Congressional Democrats are one signature short of the 12 needed to demand the appointment of a special prosecutor to examine the collapse of a savings and loan led by Neil Bush. Thomas L. Ashley said Friday he has been regularly advising President Bush's son on his savings and loan troubles as a longtime family friend _ but not at the president's request. Ashley and Bush have remained close friends since they were both members of the secret society Skull and Bones while they were undergraduates at Yale University in the late 1940s. His silent partners in JNB _ wealthy Denver developers Kenneth M. Good and Bill L. Walters _ probably reckoned they might get more than oil from the millions of dollars they invested in Bush's company. Influence and connections can often be as valuable as money to people like Good and Walters, who were already heavy borrowers from high-flying Silverado when Bush joined the board. 9, the day after President Bush won the election, Mowbray submitted a formal recommendation that Silverado be placed into receivership, and the government took control on Dec. In the memo, the federal regulators' criticism of Neil Bush focused on his failure to disclose his business ties with Walters and Good, major borrowers at Silverado. The enforcement staff's document, prepared in January, named Bush, along with former Silverado Chairman Michael Wise, Director James Metz, Executive Vice President Russell Murray, and outside counsel Ronald Jacobs. 