term limits would give the people of california more control over the legislature, and the legislature would be less prone to special interests, because legislators would know they are going to be there for six years and they're out. robert presley, state senator (d-riverside) since 1974, formerly a member of the riverside county sheriff's department for 24 years, 12 of them as undersheriff: my guess is that in about 20 years, there would be another initiative to change (term limits) because we will have found that (they) didn't work. there has been a national movement that started in california, 25 years ago, to really strengthen the role of legislatures and to make them co-equal branches of government things like term limitations, which would restrict the power and authority of legislatures, are a step backward in that movement. mark p. petracca, assistant professor of politics and society, uc irvine: the national effect would be very impressive because, unlike oklahoma (where voters recently approved a 12-year-limit on legislators), which does not have a reputation for being in the vanguard of political change in america, california does. since states do have the power to amend the constitution on their own, although it is much harder to do it that way, it could very well be that the groundswell of support for (this) movement in some key industrial states would lead to, not only initiatives in those states to restrict their own state legislative terms, but also... a demand for a constitutional amendment to do the same. for minorities who do not have a financial base, it is usually extremely hard to raise the money... well-financed, well-organized candidates who are supported by other communities will have a much better chance. if there are constant changes, the impact of term limits would be to empower the bureaucracy -- the people who are not elected -- and (they) would definitely empower the special interests who have the finances and the ability to assist the bureaucrats. 