but while mr. sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for mr. bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both democrats and republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls. one administration official noted that mr. sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year he argued it would subject mr. bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat. according to several adminstration officials, mr. sununu also encouraged mr. bush to take a firm position on issues where mr. bush had no strong views, such as vetoing appropriations bills for the district of columbia that allowed it to use its own, locally generated funds for abortions for poor women. mr. sununu began to face rough political waters a year ago when, as one of mr. bush's chief negotiators on the deficit reduction agreement, he bruised congressional egos from both political parties with heavy-handed lobbying and what many saw as disregard for their stature as elected representatives. mr. sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the white house press corps when air force one returned to washington. and the suggestion of dispatching him back home to new hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when mr. bush decided to have his campaign there run by former gop gov. mr. sununu, who plans to go into business to improve upon his government salary, also obliquely noted the reputation that has dogged his tenure: i think you know that the responsibility and authority (contrary to the legends out there) never meant as much to me as the chance to assist you to be (and to be recognized) a great president. 