
Taiwan Caucus a US Provocation: Commentary

 



 


 On April 9, the 23rd anniversary of the United States ' 
troublemaking Taiwan Relations Act, the US Congress is due to 
unveil a 70-member Taiwan caucus.

  Most congressional caucuses are issue-based or for particular 
racial groups but this one will be devoted solely to Taiwan, an 
inalienable part of China.

  It is claimed that the caucus will serve as an official channel 
for legislators from both the United States and the island to 
exchange ideas.

  Such a provocative move will obviously overshadow the renewed 
Sino-US relations. On a more dangerous level, it may provide 
fodder to Taiwan's military forces and play into the hands of 
Taiwan separatist extremists.

  One of the group's goals is to promote US military ties with 
Taiwan.

  This comes at a time when there have been conspicuous signs of 
ever-increasing US-Taiwan military ties.

  In mid-March, the US side granted Taiwan "Defence Minister" Tang 
Yiau-ming a visa so he could attend a conference sponsored by US 
military contractors in Florida. On the sidelines of the 
conference, he met senior Bush administration officials 
including Deputy Defence Secretary Paul Wolfowitz and Assistant 
Secretary of State James Kelly.

  On March 22, Admiral Dennis Blair, commander-in-chief of the US 
Pacific Command, told the House Armed Services Committee that 
the United States and Taiwan can maintain a military balance 
across the Taiwan Straits if both sides continue modernizing 
their armed forces.

  It seems that this so-called military balance is what Taiwan 
leader Chen Shui-bian wants.

  Last Wednesday when receiving a special delegation from the US 
House of Representatives, Chen said that the strong support of 
the US Congress - which led to US arms sales to Taiwan in April 
last year - ensured a balanced cross-Straits military situation 
and peace in the Taiwan Straits.

  "President Bush reaffirmed the US promises to all Taiwanese and 
repeatedly declared he would abide by the Taiwan Relations Act - 
to provide Taiwan with the necessary protection against 
Beijing," Chen was quoted by the Taipei Times as saying.

  
In most cases, those who sow the wind will reap a whirlwind.

  The robust military build-up may not bring the so-called balance 
but menace instead cross-Straits peace and stability.

  Helping Taiwan build its military muscle will only foment 
pro-independence forces. Since the latest remarks and events may 
give these forces the impression that the United States is on 
their side and ready to provide military protection, they may 
become provocative enough to push the island to the edge.



Copyright by People's Daily Online, all rights reserved

