 BRAZIL : MOTOR RACING-SCHUMACHER READY FOR THE BRIDGESTONE THREAT .
 MOTOR RACING-SCHUMACHER READY FOR THE BRIDGESTONE THREAT .
	
SAO PAULO 1997-03-31
     Double world champion Michael Schumacher learned on Sunday that his season was again going to be a struggle $-- thanks_to the Formula One tyre war .
     The German Ferrari driver struggled to finish fifth behind the victorious Jacques Villeneuve in the Brazilian Grand_Prix , second race of the year .
     Schumacher had hoped to lead his Italian team on a championship challenge this year and he made it clear he felt his bid had been undermined by his car's Goodyear tyres , while rivals like Frenchman Olivier Panis and reigning champion Damon Hill were making the most of the new Bridgestone rubber .
     The 28-year-old German , champion in 1994 and 1995 , said : "_ I was hoping for better than fifth place .
     But just as I expected , our tyres did not maintain their performance level over the whole race .
     _" I had a job getting past Hill as his tyres were still in top condition and this lost me a_lot_of time and probably cost me at_least one or two places . _"
     Even before the season began , Schumacher was warning former monopoly suppliers Goodyear that they needed to improve the tyres they supplied to the top teams if they were to resist the challenge from the newly-entered Japanese company Bridgestone .
     On Sunday his warnings proved to be correct .
     Although Villeneuve dominated the twice-started race in his Goodyear-shod Williams , it was the performances of Panis , in a Bridgestone-tyred Prost , and Hill , in his much improved Arrows using Bridgestone rubber , which were most notable .
     Panis , fifth in the first race of the season in Australia , finished third to score the Prost team and Bridgestone's first podium finish , while Hill , after running as high as fourth in a car which was abysmal in Melbourne , eventually retired with a blown Yamaha engine .
     "_ The tyres were fantastic , _" Panis said . "_ It will not be long_before we can win a race with them . _"
     Hill's team also praised the Bridgestone tyres .
     Team manager John Walton said : "_ I think we could have gone the distance with these tyres and scored a good finish if it had not been for other problems . _"
     Villeneuve's victory , however , proved that the Canadian had the ability to produce strong racing even when things were tough and he was not running on the best tyres .
     He overcame the problems of two poor starts from pole position to lead and control the race and resisted heavy pressure from Austrian Gerhard Berger in a Benetton to hang on and win .
     It was his first victory of the season and the fifth of his career and put him level top of the drivers' championship after two of this year's 17 races .
     But it was a bad day for his new team mate , German Heinz-Harald Frentzen , who finished ninth .
     "_ He had a_lot_of problems this weekend and we need to sit down and sort them out , _" Williams team technical director Patrick Head said . "_ There is some talking to be done . _"
 Given Hill's strong showing , the Williams team may be wondering if they made the right decision in dropping the world champion last year and bringing in the relatively inexperienced Frentzen to replace him .
 Frentzen clearly needs to produce a top-level performance for the third round of the series in Argentina on April 13 if he is to secure his future with the defending constructors' champions $-- and improved tyres from Goodyear would certainly help .
