
Two Russian Cosmonauts To Conduct Space Walk

 




  Two Russian cosmonauts, Vladimir Dezhurov and Mikhail Tyurin, 
are expected to perform a space walk on the International Space 
Station (ISS) at about 04:00 PM Moscow time. Frank Culbertson, 
an American astronaut and the commander of Expedition 3 to the 
ISS, will survey and control their actions from aboard the 
station. This information was unfolded by the Russian Mission 
Control.

  Mission Control's officials also stated that this unplanned 
space walk would be conducted in order to repair the 
malfunction, which had appeared in the docking unit during the 
docking of the Russian Progress M1-7 cargo space ship. Experts 
believe that the 4mm gap between the ship and the station's 
docking unit has been caused by an object, which now prevents 
the tight joining of the two space vehicles.

  According to the Russian Mission Control, the space walk may 
last from 3 to 6 hours because of the mission's difficulty. The 
cosmonauts will have to use the electric motor of the docking 
unit to manually un-dock the Progress M1-7 to the distance of 
not more than one meter from the station. Then, they will 
examine the docking unit from within. The space walk period will 
decrease if they successfully remove the object located in the 
gap between the ship and the docking unit. If the malfunction is 
more serious, the Mission Control will set the cosmonauts 
another mission.

  The Russian Mission Control also reported that the forthcoming 
launch of the American Endeavour space shuttle totally depended 
on the success of the aforementioned "repair works." Experts 
believe that the shuttle will be unable to dock the ISS if the 
Russian cargo ship is not tightly secured to the station. 
Otherwise, the dynamic blow of the docking shuttle may set the 
Russian ship "swaying" which might damage the ISS.

  There has already been a similar incident in space. In 1987, the 
Kvant module was not secured either. The cosmonauts who 
performed a space walk, successfully repaired the malfunction.


Copyright @1999 by "Pravda.RU". When reproducing our materials 
in whole or in part, reference to Pravda.RU should be made.

