TAIWAN : Formosa says would drop China deal if disapproved .
	

    Formosa says would drop China deal if disapproved .
	

    TAIPEI 1997-03-31
	

    Taiwan conglomerate Formosa Plastics group said on Monday it had promised to drop a China power plant investment if Taipei , as expected , denies a permit allowing it to finance the controversial project .
	

    "_ If the government ultimately decides not to allow the investment , Formosa group will respect the government's policy and abandon this investment project and turn it over to overseas business groups , _" Formosa said in a statement .
	

    Taiwan economic minister Wang Chih-kang confirmed receiving such assurances from Formosa chairman Wang Yung-ching and said Taiwan had no intention of allow Formosa to finance the plant .
	

    "_ We can clearly declare that the government will not allow investment in power plants ( in the Chinese mainland ) , _" Wang Chin-kang said on state radio .
	

    Formosa chairman Wang had said on Saturday that his group , Taiwan's top industrial enterprise , had begun construction of a US$3 billion power station in Fujian province in defiance of Taiwan's policy and would not take "_ no _" for an answer .
	

    "_ Once ( construction ) has started , we can_ not order it stopped , _" Wang told reporters .
	

    "_ If the government disapproves it , we insist to wait and see whether the government policy can be changed . _"
	

    On Monday , Formosa appeared to have changed its line , saying that no Formosa unit , affiliate or executive , whether in Taiwan or the United States , had put money into the project .
	

    Central Bank governor Sheu Yuan-dong told lawmakers that an initial central bank inquiry showed Formosa had not illegally sent money to China from Taiwan , state media reported .
	

    The announcements from Formosa and the economic ministry capped a day of uncertainty and intense anxiety over the fate of the giant investment , with Taiwan stocks tumbling 1.42 percent $-- largely on the strength of a plastics sector selloff .
	

    Shares in Formosa's four listed units led the losses .
	

    In June 1996 , Formosa said it and local Fujian authorities would jointly build a 3,600-megawatt plant , easily the biggest Taiwan investment in China and the first in the power sector , which Taipei had made off limits for Taiwan investors .
	

    Formosa sought Taiwan approval but backed out two months later after Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui urged local firms to slow their investments in the arch rival Chinese mainland .
	

    Lee cautioned that Taiwan must not become overdependent on the booming economy of its longtime adversary lest it become politically vulnerable , and asked Taiwan investors to use their capital at home or elsewhere besides the Chinese mainland .
	

    Communist China has regarded Nationalist-ruled Taiwan as a renegade province since a civil war split them in 1949 , vowing to take the island back by force if necessary .
	

    Taiwan espouses reunification , but not before Beijing implements democracy .
	

    On Monday , Formosa appealed to Taipei not to adopt policies that would jeopardise Taiwan's economic growth , hinting but not saying that bigger China investments were essential .
	

    "_ Taiwan should continue to step up efforts at internationalisation and liberalisation in_order_to attain continuous growth , _" the company said . "_ Economic growth is more important to Taiwan than to other countries . _"
	

    Taiwan forbids direct China investments , obliging firms to route even small investments through Hong Kong or other third places after obtaining permits from the economic ministry .
	

    Taiwan still bans investment in major Chinese strategic projects such as power generation and carmaking as_well_as banking , insurance and other financial projects .
