Coast Guard attempts rescue after freak wave smashes race yacht in Pacific

ALAMEDA, Calif. ?  The US Coast Guard was Sunday attempting to reach a yacht that ran into trouble 400 miles off the California coast after a freak wave injured several crew members and broke the vessel's steering system.

The Geraldton Western Australia, which is one of 10 68-foot vessels competing in the Clipper 11-12 Round the World Yacht Race, encountered rough weather in the Pacific Ocean, race organizers said.

A large wave came over the yacht, swept away its steering mounting and wheel and left several crew members with injuries ranging from broken ribs to back injuries.

The injured were named by race organizers as Nik Brbora, 28, Jane Hitchins, 50, and Mark Burkes, 37, from Britain; and Max Wilson, 62, from Australia.

"We were racing along in 40-60 knot gusts," the boat's skipper Juan Coetzer said. "The sea was alive with rage. We were making good speed, sailing with the third reef in the main, surfing at 15 to 20 knots. Then at our watch change, just before the sun came up, a monstrous foaming swell broke over our stern."

"Mark Burkes was on the helm at the time," he added. "The water had so much force in it that it pushed Mark into the helm, snapping the pedestal clean off. We had no steering and crew were falling all over the boat."

A US Coast Guard cutter and helicopter were en route to the stricken vessel and were due to arrive there by 8:30am local time, race organizers said.

"Once in range, plans call for the helicopter to fly to the yacht and lower a rescue swimmer to assess the injured boaters," the Coast Guard said in a statement. "At that time, the rescue crew will determine the further needs of the injured persons."

Coast Guard Petty Officer Levi Read told NewsCore he was only aware of three injured on the vessel, but would know more once they reached the boat.

"At this time the extent of the injuries is not fully known but they are considered serious," the Coast Guard statement added.

Earlier Saturday evening the Coast Guard dispatched a Hercules search and rescue aircraft and parajumper team to the scene but they were unable to jump because of bad weather. The team dropped medical supplies to the vessel at about 7:00pm local time and returned to base.

The race started in the UK and its current leg called for yachts to race to San Francisco from Qingdao, China. The next leg of the race will see boats head to New York City via the Panama Canal.

Read more: http://www.foxnews.com/us/2012/04/01/coast-guard-attempts-rescue-after-freak-wave-smashes-race-yacht-in-pacific/#ixzz1qpG5WJ2z
