    A feast fit for a prawn : Revolutionary food capsules may lead to bigger and better harvests of shellfish .
	

    Ted Nield reports By TED NIELD
	

    PRAWNS are not small fry .
	

    According_to the Shellfish Association of Great Britain , they are our most popular seafood .
	

    Four out_of every five restaurants serve them , and our import bill reached 100m in 1987 .
	

    Britons now chomp their way through more than 27,000 tonnes a year ?
	

    about half a kilo for every man , woman and child .
	

    Dr Eric Edwards of the Shellfish Association says : & bquo ; Customer reaction is that they are stylish and upmarket . & equo ;
	

    Demand in Europe and North America continues to rise by 4 per_cent a year $- despite the fact that natural sources are already overfished .
	

    For this reason , prawn farming thrives in South and Central America , Taiwan , China , Japan , Indonesia , the Philippines and Thailand , where tropical species grow very quickly , giving two or three crops per year .
	

    From a modest 1,000 tonnes a year in the early 1970s , the world '_ s prawn farms are expected to produce 440,000 tonnes by 1990 .
	

    But while rising demand , high prices and fast growth provide the stimulus , the prawn '_ s life-cycle presents many problems for the would-be farmer .
	

    A team of scientists from the distinctly untropical environment of the University College of North Wales in Bangor has solved some of these problems by designing food fit for a prawn to eat .
	

    But this tale of commercial enterprise by academics has , ironically , rebounded on them .
	

    Peneaeus monodon , the Asian prawn , spends much of its life in coastal waters , migrating at maturity to deeper water for spawning .
	

    Here the female may produce 800,000 eggs which hatch within 36 hours into larvae .
	

    The larvae undergo a complex cycle of 12 stages in almost as many days , making their way back inshore as they reach their adult form .
	

    Traditionally , prawn farmers have trapped these young adults ( or & bquo ; post-larvae & equo ; as they are called ) and put them into ponds .
	

    But with this method , supplies are unreliable .
	

    Ideally , farmers would like to grow the larvae from eggs , and so a new industry ?
	

    prawn hatcheries ?
	

    has grown up_to meet the demand .
	

    There are more than 1,500 hatcheries in Taiwan alone .
	

    Hatchery owners then face the problem of getting supplies of the right feedstuffs for their metamorphosing crop .
	

    During the larval cycle , prawns change their diet dramatically , from plant plankton to animal plankton and finally to the creatures which live in the sediment .
	

    In the past , hatcheries have had to rely on live feed , which is as unreliable and expensive to harvest from nature as it is to grow artificially .
	

    Clearly , some form of artificial feed was needed .
	

    However , throwing organic matter into water feeds the bacteria as_well_as the prawns , which are quite fussy about who shares their environment .
	

    So the problem was to create a feed which came in particles of the right size ( five millionths of a metre across ) , could be freeze-dried , would not foul the water , dissolve or feed the bugs .
 	

    Until it was developed , prawn hatcheries would remain at the mercy of factors beyond their control .
	

    The North Wales scientists came up with the solution .
	

    A team led by Dr David Jones , of Bangor '_ s renowned School of Ocean Sciences , designed a revolutionary new feed , using a process called microencapsulation which puts a thin , digestible membrane around each tiny food particle .
	

    & bquo ; It '_ s exactly the same , essentially , as making nylon , & equo ; he says . & bquo ; To do that , you take a_lot_of identical molecules called amines and join them together to form a chain .
	

    To make nylon thread , you dissolve the amines in a liquid .
	

    Then you take an acid chloride , and dissolve it in another liquid which wo n't mix with the first one .
	

    & bquo ; When you put the two together , the cross-linking reaction occurs , and all the amine molecules at the interface of the two liquids join together in a polymer .
	

    By drawing the polymer off , new cross-links are formed and you go on drawing the thread until all the constituents are used up .
	

    & bquo ; Now if , instead_of having a single interface between the two liquids , you emulsify the two ( like oil and vinegar in French dressing ) the reaction occurs over the surface of each suspended droplet , creating a capsule . & equo ;
	

    Originally , the team mixed prawn nutrients with amines , thinking that they would be needed to form the capsule .
	

    But it soon became obvious that the proteins of the nutrient contained the correct chemical groups , and that the food molecules themselves were polymerizing and creating the capsule membrane .
	

    & bquo ; Haemoglobin , chicken egg and many other natural proteins are rich in the important chemical groups , and these cross-link without any problem at all .
	

    We have now been able to remove all non-nutrients from the mixture ?
	

    which is lucky because amines are actually very toxic . & equo ;
	

    After their initial breakthrough , the team still had much to do before the process became commercially viable .
	

    The first membranes they made were far too thin and would not survive transfer into air , let_alone freeze-drying .
	

    & bquo ; Once we had solved the thickness problem , it became a commercial possibility , & equo ; says Dr Jones , & bquo ; and Mars ?
	

    the people who make the chocolate bars ?
	

    became interested .
	

    Eventually we got together to devise the patents and scale up the process . & equo ; A subsidiary company , Frippak Feeds , was set up in Batley , West Yorkshire to manufacture the feed ?
	

    the only one which can be used exclusively , without the need for supplements .
	

    Developing the diet has had great scientific spin-offs . & bquo ; It '_ s amazing that a multi-million pound industry was built on an animal nobody knew anything about , & equo ; Dr Jones says . & bquo ; We have 50 years of data on the chicken or the pig .
	

    We know exactly how to change their feed day_by_day to produce optimum growth .
	

    None of this had been done for the prawn .
	

    & bquo ; Through refining our feed , by leaving things out and seeing what happens , we have been able to define the dietary requirements of the prawn throughout its development .
	

    We '_ ve learnt about its physiology and how it changes to keep pace with the larva '_ s changing eating habits .
	

    & bquo ; We know how fast food moves through its gut , how much energy it takes to make one post-larval prawn from the day it hatches , and_so_on .
	

    We '_ ve learnt an enormous amount because the microcapsule is such an ideal tool for simplifying and controlling food intake . & equo ;
	

    Dr Jones and his team are now extending their work to other species , and to the post-larval stage , which leads to the ultimate product ?
	

    the prawn on the end of your fork .
	

    And expertise gained has enabled the university to launch a new MSc course in shellfish biology , fisheries and culture ?
	

    due_to take its first students in the coming academic year .
	

    & bquo ; The commercial aspects are very good , of_course ?
	

    though I still find the teaching and research spin-offs the most exciting part of it all , & equo ; says Dr Jones .
	

    But , he admits , one would not have happened without the other .
	

    It is tempting to see this tale as a classic example of how academic work can stimulate opportunity , create wealth , and enrich both research and teaching .
	

    But Dr Jones '_ s involvement with industry has led him into difficulties ?
	

    which lend a critical edge to the parable .
	

    & bquo ; Frippak support our work generously , & equo ; he says . & bquo ; But they are understandably reluctant to pay for research students , because they will probably go off and join the competition .
	

    But I had to get research students from somewhere , so I asked the research councils to fund them , in the usual way , by submitting research proposals .
	

    & bquo ; That did n't work either .
	

    The project '_ s got alpha ratings , but the council saw the industrial involvement and said & bquo ; Go to industry ?
	

    we '_ re short_of money & equo ; .
	

    & bquo ; It '_ s a real Catch 22 situation .
	

    Once you get working with industry , there '_ s a feeling that industry must pay for everything .
	

    But I do n't see why they should be asked to shoot themselves in the foot by paying to train a competitor '_ s workforce , and neither do they !
	

    & equo ;
	

    The end result is that Dr Jones takes on overseas researchers . & bquo ; That '_ s fine as far as I am concerned & equo ; he says . & bquo ; They do n't cost British industry or taxpayers a thing , but of_course they take all their expertise abroad .
	

    & bquo ; Whatever the Government '_ s idea is , I do n't think that '_ s it , somehow . & equo ;
