
Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise

 



  

President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for 
voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions 
of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House 
officials said last night.

  The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto 
Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all 
other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts 
in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. Mr. 
Bush rejected the treaty last March, calling its targets 
arbitrary, its schedule too costly to meet and its terms, which 
are not easily applied in large developing countries, unfair.

  The program he is to announce this afternoon would slow the rate 
of growth in emissions in relation to the growth of the overall 
economy. It would use $4.6 billion in tax credits over the next 
five years to encourage companies and individuals to limit those 
emissions.

  Utilities, for example, would get incentives to build 
power-generating windmills; homeowners would get new tax credits 
for buying solar panels or more efficient cars.

  The one thing the climate policy would not do is require 
anything of anybody, sticking with the position Mr. Bush has 
held for more than a year on the climate issue: that firm limits 
on the so-called greenhouse gases would drag down the economy.

  The administration's approach, he plans to say, is based "on the 
common-sense idea that sustainable economic growth is the key to 
environmental progress - because it is growth that provides the 
resources for investment in clean technologies," according to an 
advance text.

  On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. 
Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other 
kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide 
and nitrogen oxides. In contrast to proposals by 
environmentalists and many Democrats, however, the plan would 
delay such cuts until 2010 or later.

  Last night, administration officials called the voluntary 
approach on climate the most reasonable path for the time being. 
A senior administration official did say, however, that if 
insufficient progress was being made by 2012, there could be a 
move toward some kind of limits. "If we're not making progress 
toward our goal," he said, "we will be considering a full range 
of programs."

  Some environmental groups criticized this kind of checkup, 
saying it puts off any measuring of progress until well after 
Mr. Bush is out of office.

  Under the administration's proposed target, the growth rate of 
emissions of carbon dioxide would drop nearly 18 percent by 2012 
- to 151 metric tons for each $1 million in gross domestic 
product, from the current level of 183 metric tons.

  But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of 
yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend 
toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as 
the economy grows, this would not result in emissions 
reductions.

  Alluding to the date of the speech, Jennifer Morgan, the climate 
policy director for the World Wildlife Fund, called it "a 
valentine to the coal and oil industry that will allow emissions 
to increase without any time frame, eternally."

  One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand 
a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their 
emissions of greenhouse gases. Those that participate, 
voluntarily, would gain credits that might eventually be used in 
a trading scheme similar to that used for other pollution.

  White House officials said this could prompt industries to 
change behavior, the same way similar reporting requirements 
instituted in the late 1980's resulted in big cuts in releases 
of toxic chemicals.

  Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, 
a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: "The 
president's global warming proposal appears to be another 
faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major 
corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon 
pollution. That approach has failed for a decade now, since the 
president's father set up the first voluntary program."

  And Myron Ebell, a climate policy expert at the Competitive 
Enterprise Institute, a private group whose free- market views 
are frequently embraced by industry, criticized the idea from 
the opposite ideological direction.

  "What looks like voluntary will actually be coercive," Mr. Ebell 
said.

  The president is leaving for Asia on Saturday and has been under 
pressure to present a climate plan before visiting Japan. Japan, 
which has avoided criticizing the administration over its 
rejection of the treaty, has been eager for a sign that Mr. Bush 
is concerned about the issue. Several experts on the treaty said 
that his decision to make the announcement now was very likely 
influenced by this situation.

  The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - 
mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose 
mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by 
buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required 
levels.

  There would be no similar limits on power plants' emissions of 
carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. In the face of lobbying 
from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign 
pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together 
and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea.

  As hints of the emerging plan circulated in e-mail messages by 
environmental groups and conservative groups, it appeared that 
no one was particularly pleased.

  An official at an energy company that had been pressing the 
White House to revise power plant rules said the best news was 
that there was something finally on the table to discuss.

  "At least they're coming out with something," the official said. 
"It may not be what everyone wants, but it recognizes that the 
Senate is going to deal with climate on its power plant bill."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

