
Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities

 


 
 


Miami Herald 

January 31, 2002 

Navy Officer Balances Religious Responsibilities 

By Carol Rosenberg 

  

GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba -- You're the first-ever 
American Muslim cleric to minister to a prison camp full of 
suspected terrorists and one confides he has a weapon.



  
Do you keep the secret?

  
Or do you breach religious confidentiality?

 

 If you're U.S. Navy Lt. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam you search 
for a third way to resolve the clear conflict of interest 
between the crescent moon pin stuck in your left lapel and the 
lieutenant's bars on the right side of your uniform.

  ``I will say, `Give it to me,' -- and not tell the general who 
had it,'' he says softly but firmly. ``I'll make sure that he 
doesn't have it.''

  A 39-year-old life-long, practicing Muslim, the soft-spoken 
Bangladesh immigrant is navigating uncharted waters and juggling 
complicated loyalties -- all while managing an international 
spotlight he has never experienced before.

  As a U.S. military chaplain, his contacts with prisoners are 
governed by the same confidentiality as that of a priest, 
minister or rabbi in the clergy corps. Saiful-Islam is by 
training an imam, or a prayer leader, who guides the faithful in 
a mosque during the five-times-a-day Muslim prayer.

  At Camp X-ray, he is also serving the function of a muezzin, the 
person who announces the call to prayer, commonly from a tower 
called a minaret. In his case, he is using a public address 
system and recording the prayer for five-times-a-day broadcast.

  Sometimes he laughs uncomfortably when questioned by 
journalists. Sometimes he looks bewildered. But mostly he's a 
busy man, trying to soothe Muslim sensitivities over the rugged 
chain-linked-fence cells at Camp X-ray.

  
Advocate

  Saiful-Islam arrived at the detention center for suspected 
terrorists on Jan. 24 and made his debut by chanting the 
pre-dawn call to prayer to wake up alleged leaders of 
Afghanistan's Taliban militia and members of Osama bin Laden's 
al Qaeda network.

  Since then, he has emerged as their advocate, arguing that the 
U.S. military can safeguard its soldiers while adding a few 
amenities of everyday Islamic life.

  Soon, he says, traditional white knit skullcaps will arrive for 
the captives to top off their fluorescent orange jumpsuits.

  Saiful-Islam has also asked for some copies of the Koran, in 
Urdu, a language of Afghanistan and Pakistan, plus large-type, 
Arabic copies for those with bad eyesight or those who read like 
elementary school children.

  ``These things are hard to find in America, and Gitmo is far, 
far away,'' says Saiful-Islam, a husband and father of a nearly 
2-year-old daughter in California.

  Until he emerged as the chaplain of choice for this special 
assignment from among only 14 Muslim clerics in the U.S. armed 
forces, he was the only cleric specifically assigned to a Marine 
Corps base -- at Camp Pendleton, Calif.

  Military recruiters building a Muslim chaplains corps spotted 
Saiful-Islam in 1993, while he was an enlisted man working as a 
payroll clerk in the Pentagon and studying part-time to become a 
Muslim cleric.

  He was commissioned as an officer in 1998, just a year after 
obtaining U.S. citizenship and nine years after leaving his 
homeland to study in America.

  The first time he was sent to a theater of combat came in 
October when he served as chaplain at Operation Brightstar, a 
huge military exercise in Egypt not far from the World War II 
battleground called al-Alamein.

  
No Answers

  His role has a curious juxtaposition, which he sums up simply. 
Captives at Camp X-ray are entitled to spiritual solace, he 
says, even though he doesn't accept radical interpretations that 
have led them to an unorthodox battlefield against the so-called 
Great Satan, the United States.

  ``I, of course, don't agree with their cause,'' he says, ``and 
neither does the religion, Islam.''

  But after several days of four- and five-hour shifts inside the 
camp, hearing the prisoners' requests, he said exchanges have 
not dipped that deeply into the doctrinal.

  
Mostly, they ask about their fate, and when they might go home.

  
``I don't have any answer for them,'' he says.

  Conversations between the cleric and the captives have taken 
place, one on one, in his native Bengali and Urdu. Others 
require the services of Arabic interpreters -- who, like 
Saiful-Islam, are U.S. military men in battle dress uniforms.

  So far no one has asked him how a practicing Muslim can also 
wear the uniform of the U.S. armed forces. It was a question he 
had expected. But instead, he says with surprise, ``They all 
want to speak with me. They all raise their hands'' to catch the 
attention of the U.S. government's designated spiritual leader.

  ``If they don't trust me with their needs, they don't get it,'' 
he says, with a sigh. ``I wish I had more time.''

