    Truck or treats ?
	

    Brandwagon .
	

    By Richard Longworth
	

    DIESEL engines are the most fuel efficient vehicle power source available .
	

    Trucks , buses and most taxis use them , and 40 per_cent of vehicle fuel sold in the UK last year was diesel .
	

    But diesel engines also have very dirty exhaust emissions .
	

    While not having the concentrations of poisonous gases found in petrol engine exhausts , they give out far more & bquo ; particulates & equo ; ( soot ) .
	

    Diesel engine manufacturers have long maintained that these are harmless , but recently they have been found to contain polyaromatich hydrocarbons ( PAH ) , which can cause cancer when breathed deeply .
	

    Soot was first connected with cancer by a London doctor in 1774 .
	

    Diesel engines also produce nitrous ocxides ( NOx ) , which return from the skies as acid rain .
	

    It is small wonder that the truck and bus manufacturers based in areas hit worst by acid rain , Volvo and Scania in Sweden and MAN in Bavaria , are working hardest to cut pollutants .
	

    While many politicians have only recently seen their green light many diesel engine manufacturers have looked further ahead , and have been developing cleaner engines , principally in response to stringent American legislation .
	

    The result will be a common level of NOx and particular emissions from vehicles ( measured in grammes per kilowat hour ) from vehicles sold in Europe after 1991 .
	

    NOx be cut to 11.8g/Kw/hr , and particulates to 11.8 g/Kw/hr , That level will still be significantly higher than US levels , but much lower than vehicles currently being sold .
	

    There is also a further cut in the pipeline , but this second phase of diesel pollution is running into technical problems .
	

    While the first level of cuts can be reached using existing levels of technology , the second stage , likely in 1994 , will require a new generation of engines .
	

    These will be electronically controlled , a technical task far harder on a diesel engine than on its petrol counterpart .
	

    The exhaust will also have to be fitted with filters to trap the particulates and their carcinogenic PAHs .
	

    However these are cumbersome , complicated and expensive .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    The problem is that they clog up .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    Some manufacturers such as MAN and DAF have solved the problem by fitting filters which clean themselves with a small furnace as the vehicle is in operation .
	

    Volvo on the other hand is testing buses fitted with filters like dustbins , which are cleaned at the end of a day .
	

    For there to be a Europe-wide common standard of emissions , there must also be a common standard for fuel , as some types of fuel smoke worse than others .
	

    Talks are currently in progress in all the EC states , to try to distill some common requirements from fuel suppliers and their customers .
	

    Unlike lead , which the fuel companies eventually proved only too pleased to take out_of petrol , sulphur does nothing for either the performance or longevity of diesel engines and it contributes to acid rain .
	

    Currently , diesel fuel sold in the EC contains 0.3 per_cent sulphur , except in West Germany where the level is 0.25 per_cent .
	

    Klaus Schubert , technicaldirector at MAN , says his company would like to see it reduced to 0.02 per_cent , but recognises that 0.05 per_cent is a more realistic level .
	

    However John Bullock , retail fuels technical manager at Shell UK , says the price of the fuel would rise significantly , because extra crude would have to be refined to run the hydro-desulphurisation process .
	

    There is , however , a chasm between what is becoming technically possible , and the reality of what is likely to happen to the air on our city streets , where , according_to Friends of the Earth , pollution levels regularly exceed WHO standards .
	

    London buses , for_example , are exempt from traffic lawsaffecting other vehicles , which in the competitive deregulated world of modern bus operation , include expensive pollution control .
	

    There are also buses at_least 30 years_old still being run , so it is likely to be decades before the fleet is replaced .
	

    With over a quarter of the UK fleet of rigid ( urban delivery ) vehicles over eight years_old , high street deliveries are also destined to smell for years .
