	
On the afternoon of August 29, after several delays due to various causes, Japan successfully launched its H2A rocket No. 1 into space from Tanegashima Space Center. This milestone puts Japan's aerospace development program back on track. 
	
	
 The carrier rocket is the foundation of space exploration and utilization. It is also the first hurdle to overcome to realize any astronautical program. Japan previously developed the L and M series of launch vehicles. However, these two rockets are primarily used to launch low orbit satellites. In order to launch large stationary satellites, Japan developed the H series rocket. The major performance characteristics of the H series rocket are comparable to those developed by the United States and some European nations. The Japanese aerospace community takes a great deal of pride in this achievement. 
	
	
 In order to compete with the United States, Europe, and China, Japan decided to drastically reduce its costs, especially in every aspect of rocket design and manufacture. It adopted the simplest design and implemented various cost-cutting measures in an attempt to lower the manufacturing cost per satellite from 19 billion yen to 9 billion yen. It is supposed to be the next generation rocket that is both inexpensive and highly reliable. However, things did not go according to plan. This low cost approach brought about a series of satellite launch failures. In November 1999, a "multi-purpose" satellite was launched by H2 rocket No. 8. It did not enter its predetermined orbit and had to be destroyed. This was the third failure in a row. After this incident, Japan began to redesign the main engine of the H2 rocket. Eventually, the H2A rocket was developed. 
	
	
 In addition to carrier rockets, Japan also invested heavily in the development and utilization of various satellite technologies. Japan wishes to build a $21 billion per year aerospace industry centered on commercial satellite development. In the field of satellite communications, Japan's National Space Development Agency (NASDA) spent $310 million to develop the ETS-8 (Engineering Test Satellite 8) satellite. This satellite doubled the capacity of the test satellite previously launched by Japan. This program not only puts Japan in the lead in providing new mobile communication services in the Asia-Pacific region, but also allows Japan to test some new satellite communication techniques to be introduced worldwide. A Japanese made H2A rocket will launch this satellite in 2002. 
	
	
 Military surveillance satellites are also included in its development plan. Japan has prepared a military space program and allocated $1.3 billion to implement it. It will create a military surveillance satellite system consisting of two optical satellites and two radar satellites. 
	
	
 Japan also has a huge space power plant plan. It proposes to construct a gigantic solar power plant in space. The power generated will then converted to microwaves to be received by microwave receiver stations on earth. It is then converted back to electricity. In addition, it also plans to develop 12 satellites, a new generation of unmanned space lab, a space station supply system, and a space shuttle in the next 5 years. 
	
	
 In the past decade, despite its stagnating economy, Japan has still put space exploration as a top priority item in its space program. The Japanese aerospace industry has an ambitious plan to explore the planets. Its first target is the moon. Presently, Japan is implementing these plans in different stages. "Lunar A," one of the major projects, is aimed at delivering two penetrators on the moon to collect various data. One will be located near the landing site of Apollo 14 and the other near a ring-shaped mountain range on the dark side of the moon. "Selene," a project that has a $200 million price tag, will be launched in 2003. It is comprised of two lunar orbiters and a soft landing spacecraft. The soft-landing vehicle will be responsible for data collection and transmission back to earth for further processing. 
	
	
 Japan is determined to become a major power in aerospace. It is its national policy. It is also the path to becoming a major military power. Between 1970 and the end of 1999, Japan launched a total of 66 satellites. In terms of quantity, it is only behind the United States and Russia. In addition, it also takes part in the international space station project and has developed its own astronauts. Japan also has a relatively strong aerospace industry. In 1998, its revenue was 1.1 trillion yen, which represents a 10.5 percent market share worldwide. 
	
	
 After two years of stalemate, the Japanese government recently reorganized its aerospace development agency. Furthermore, it set priorities for the next five years. They include a spy satellite, a data relay satellite to transfer data between satellites, an unmanned universe lab system, a test satellite for communications and broadcasting, an observation satellite for environmental protection, "Kibo" the Japanese experimental module of the space station and its supply system, and the H2A carrier rocket to launch all the spacecraft mentioned earlier. By 2010, Japan will increase its global market share in aerospace to 17.4 percent. This is the goal set by the Japanese. 
	
	
	


