 USA : Fed stays put , leaving economists pondering its next move .
Fed stays put , leaving economists pondering its next move .
Chris Stetkiewicz
NEW YORK 1996-08-20
The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting Tuesday , leaving economists and analysts pondering what the central bank might do next .
Some analysts said that while Fed policy-makers resisted pressures this summer to raise short-term rates , economic data over the coming weeks may force them to raise rates later this year .
However , other analysts $-- and some former Federal Reserve officials $-- said that mixed economic data and a touch of political pressure might be the recipe for steady monetary policy through the November presidential election .
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee are expected to be careful as they juggle upcoming data , such as the August employment report due Sept. 6 , and the vicissitudes of the political race for the White House .
"_ Every member of that FOMC is going to be very careful , _" said Preston Martin , a former Fed vice chairman who is now chairman of HomeVest Financial Services Inc. in San Francisco .
"_ That means that the odds build up about no action .
No action is safer than some action . _"
The Fed has held its target for the federal funds rate $-- the rate banks charge each_other for overnight loans $-- at 5.25 percent since January .
However , recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in August , although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals .
"_ Before the Fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year , they better have a solid economic justification for doing that , _" said Sung Won Sohn , chief economist at Norwest Corp. "_ Without the justifications , they would rather wait . _"
Some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook , meaning the Fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears .
"_ I think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going , _" said Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor and currently an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America .
How long could that take ?
"_ Well , I think the Fed will move sometime later this year $...
It may well be until very late this year , possibly even December , before the Fed knows for sure whether it needs to move or not , _" Gramley added .
Gramley believes the U.S. economy is fundamentally strong but said "_ some tightening will be necessary down the road . _"
Martin agreed that the Fed is likely to remain on hold , "_ not just because_of the election , but because this ( current economic scene ) is a central banker nirvana . _"
Martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the Fed on hold over the next few months .
But not everyone agrees with that scenario .
"_ My guess is ( a rate rise ) is going to be right back on tap after the August data start coming out , _" said Salomon Brothers economist Brian Jones . "_ There is a good chance they_ 'll go ( up ) at the Sept. 24 FOMC meeting . _"
Despite signs of strong economic growth , inflation remains quite low historically , and Fed leaders have refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data .
But upcoming employment data could change all that , analysts said .
Persistent job growth threatens to shatter the economy's recent low-inflation trend and the Fed will not stand idly and watch that happen , they said .
"_ The job market is still quite firm .
We_ 'll need to see jobless claims move back up pretty soon in_order_to confirm the economic slowdown story , _" said Josh Feinman , global markets economist at BT Securities Corp .
The four-week moving average of jobless claims' reached a seven-year low last week , adding to recent warnings of pending wage inflation .
That also suggests the economy continues to churn out new jobs at a pace likely to drag the unemployment rate lower than July's 5.4 percent reading , analysts said .
The absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the Fed will hold monetary policy steady .
"_ Strong job growth has persisted long enough that the Fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice , _" said Gary Schlossberg , senior economist at Wells Fargo Bank .
Critics initially blasted the Fed for failing to raise rates at its July FOMC meeting when a report just two days later showed 239,000 new jobs created in June .
But a month later the July report showed a decline to 193,000 in new non-farm payrolls and , perhaps more important , a slight drop in average hourly earnings .
Fed officials had predicted a slowdown in real gross domestic product from the robust 4.2 percent second-quarter clip .
The dip in payroll growth suddenly made that forecast look brilliant , analysts said .
"_ So far the Fed has done the right thing by keeping its powder dry , _" Schlossberg said . "_ There is still a risk the Fed could fall behind the curve , but right_now it looks like the economic slowdown is happening . _"
