	
Washington, 17 Apr (Xinhua) -- A farce of coup d'etat was staged in Venezuela recently. The leader of the coup had no sooner warmed the coveted seat than he had to beat a retreat under pressure upon pressure domestically and internationally. According to US news media, that coup in Venezuela had something to do with the United States. This maybe a surprise to many people. 
	
	
 Coup d'etat is an unusual means to seize a country's political power. It is an unpopular means because it goes against the tide of the world today. By the same token, the coup in Venezuela has incurred widespread condemnation and objection from the international community, including the Latin American states, except the United States. The US Government's first reaction gave much food for thought when it said Venezuela's constitutional president Chavez "had himself to blame" for the coup. This is far out of tune with the attitude the United States used to take when a coup occurred in other countries. 
	
	
 As the saying goes, when you pull up the turnip, mud comes with it. Just as Venezuela restored its constitutional rule and Chavez was returned to power, the New York Times came up with a shocking story: the US Government and senior military officials were in contact with the Venezuelan coup organizers. In recent months, they met with the coup organizers for several times and gave consent to the overthrow of Chavez. Faced with the media's reports, the White House and the Pentagon have had to make statements publicly. They acknowledged their contacts with leaders of the coalition of opposition factions who took part in the coup, but denied having supported them. The Pentagon spokesperson Clarke went a step further to explain that US Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary [Rogelio Pardo-] Maurer for Western Hemisphere Affairs met with Venezuelan Armed Forces Supreme Commander and Inspector General Lucas Rincon in December of last year and made it clear to the latter that the United !
States "supports democracy" and that "we in no way would support any coups or unconstitutional activity." 
	
	
 Since the United States "supports democracy," then why did Maurer have that meeting with Rincon? Why didn't the United States inform Venezuela's constitutional government of the coup attempt by Rincon and the others? 
	
	
 For every effect, there is a cause. After taking the Office of Presidency, Chavez has implemented an independent foreign policy and seemed to be not in step with the United States in many respects. Take one example. To the United States, Iraq's Saddam Regime is a thorn in the eye and flesh which must be removed. But Chavez in his 2000 visit to some OPEC member states made a stop at Baghdad where he held talks with Saddam. In addition, while the United States is disgusted with the Cuban Government under Castro, the Chavez Government has kept a close relationship with the Cuban Government. Probably this is the major reason why the United States is happy to see a change of government in Venezuela. 
	
	
 In the past, whenever a coup occurred in some Latin American countries, there was always a backdrop of US involvement. The only guideline determining US rejection or support of the government of a [foreign] country is whether it follows US baton and whether its domestic and foreign policies are in accord with the US "national interests." On this matter, "supporting democracy" is but a signboard used by the United States. Hence one can see that it is not to be surprised that the United States chimed in with the Venezuela's coup organizers. Only it was a little too early to get excited. 
	
	
	


