
   Space station's railcar slightly off track

 



 

 CAPE CANAVERAL - (AP) -- Astronauts sent the international space 
station's new railcar rolling slowly down a short stretch of 
track Monday, but it quickly hit a snag that interrupted the 
inaugural run of the first permanent railroad in orbit.

  
NASA blamed the problem on weightlessness.

  Engineers suspect the one-ton car floated ever so slightly off 
the rail, causing the magnetic sensors on the bottom of the car 
to lose contact with a pair of iron strips in the aluminum 
tracks.

  The railcar will eventually be used during the next stages of 
the space station's construction. The track runs along a 44-foot 
girder that space shuttle Atlantis' astronauts delivered and 
bolted to the orbiting outpost last week.

  The problem cropped up after the empty flatcar moved down 17 
feet of track at a snail's pace of less than a half-inch per 
second. Right on cue, the car stopped at a work station and was 
automatically latching itself down when everything came to a 
halt.

  Ground controllers took over manual control and, a few hours 
later, were able to latch the railcar to the track.

  Space station astronaut Carl Walz sent another computer command 
from inside to get the railcar moving again. The railcar 
smoothly rolled 26 feet to a second work station, where the same 
thing happened. Again, ground controllers had to take over 
manual control to secure the car.

  Later Monday, Walz commanded the railcar to move for the third 
and final time, back down the same 26 feet of track. ''The 
train's leaving the station,'' he called out. It got to where it 
was going, but the automatic latching system shut down again and 
ground controllers had to step in as before.

  ''I think what we're finding out as we go through this is how 
the mobile transporter works in zero-g,'' said Ben Sellari, a 
NASA manager.

  Engineers may adjust the computer software sometime if it 
becomes more of a nuisance, he said. There is no danger of the 
$190 million railcar rolling off the track because of rings on 
both ends of the 44-foot girder, Sellari said.

  The first use of the railcar is set for late summer. The railcar 
is needed to transport the space station's 58-foot robot arm 
from one end of the outpost to the other as more girders are 
installed. Atlantis' astronauts plan a fourth and final 
spacewalk today to finish installing the girder.

