
   Europe to Tax Israeli Settlement Goods

 



  
RAMALLAH (Palestine Media Center): Signaling a toughening policy 
towards the illegal Israeli settlements, the European Union's 
(EU) Origin Committee, which consists of customs experts and 
commissioners, is to discuss imposing taxes on all Israeli goods 
produced in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East 
Jerusalem as well as the occupied Golan Heights.

  

The discussion is to be held today, 26 February, and it shall be 
centered on creating a common European policy, which would 
revoke duty benefits awarded to Israeli settlement products.

  The move, which follows the European Union's rejection of 
Israel's military occupation of the Palestinian Territory, 
including East Jerusalem, was the subject of European debate and 
Israeli objection in the past. It also signals the EU's 
discontent over Israel's refusal to provide it with a list of 
the Israeli factories operating in the Occupied Palestinian and 
Arab Territories.

  In November of last year, the EU had issued a warning to 
European importers, specifying that Israeli exports originating 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as well as the Golan 
Heights were not included in the free trade agreement with 
Israel.

  At present Israel enjoys a free trade agreement with the EU, 
which exempts it from customs duties.

  While Israel rejects the EU plan for political and economic 
reasons, the EU affirms its position of not recognizing the 
Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a 
legitimate part of Israel. And while the Israeli settlement 
products only amount to US $100 million of the US $8 billion 
Israel gains annually from its exports to Europe, Israeli 
officials have expressed their worry over the committee's 
deliberations.

  The 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention clearly states that any 
settlement that the Occupying Power creates in an Occupied 
Territory is illegal and considered a war crime. Although High 
Contracting Parties to the Convention have affirmed the 
Convention's de jure applicability to the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, including East Jerusalem, Israel maintains its 
refusal to respect its obligations as an Occupying Power, which 
would include the dismantling of its illegal settlements in that 
Territory in addition to not exporting any products from them.



Copyright @ 2002 Palestine Chronicle

