          IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS MOST MERCYFUL





 So this is the reality we're living in al-Anbar in general, and Ramadi in particular, that is
the head Sheiks of some tribes, and symbols of the Islamic Party, sat with the Americans
in Jordan, and other places, to fight terrorism and its people.
The Sheiks started teaching people about these ideas, this conspiracy is led by two sides,
the first is the heads of the tribes, the second is the leaders of the Islamic Party and
mosques speakers, so they announced their war on the Mujahidin, it increased during the
elections for the new constitution, their danger was so great, that hundreds of people
volunteered in the police and the army, and thousands of people participated in the
elections, renouncing their religion, and listenning to the erratics. After we took a look at
the situation, we found that the best solutions to stop thousands of people from
renouncing their religion, is to cut the heads of the Sheiks of infidelity and erratic.
Before we start reviewing the events that accured here, we ask two questions:

First: If there were people who are raping thousands of muslim women taking their
honor, and stealing muslim money and land, and other people who don't rape or steal, but
they take the religion away from thousands of muslims, what's more important, religion,
or honor and land? What we learned from muslim scholars is that robbing the religion
from muslims, is greater than robbing their honor and land, god said "turmoil is greater
than murder", and for those devils, their danger is greater than who rapes, or rob and steal
money or land.

Second question: Why did we announce and started fighting the Shiites and police from
the start, even thought most of the Jihadist sectors and the public didn't understand what
we want, and didn't know the importance of starting with those, so what's the objection
on killing and executing the Sheiks now and without a notice, with continiuing making
people understand it, just like we did by killing the police then, were people satisfied with
us? Actually lot of the public thinks that who killed the police is Badr organization or
gangs from Iran ! and that who's killing Shiites is hired by Israel and the U.S. to start an
ethnic war and so on.

 From what we saw, the damage caused by those erratic infidels (Tribes Sheiks, The
Islamic Party) is more dangerous than the Shiites and the peaceful police as people call
them. You Sheik announced war on those, with the opposings of many sectors and
scholars of decision making. The brothers now are wiping out the heads of infidelity, as
soon as they started, and never claiming responsibility, we found among us who wants to
make fuss about it, and regretfully some of the brothers with us in the organization (al-
Qa'ida) see it as nonsense, and god is my witness.

My Sheik, here's some of the events that happened in Ramadi:

   1- Sheik Nasr al-Fahdawi, Sheik of AlbuFahd tribe, was nominated to be the
      governor of Anbar, this man worked so hard fighting the (Tanzim)organization,
      with all he's got, from money to power, and reputation in Ramadi, so we tried this
@       with him: First, we backed off during the elections, they had checkpoints, using
       tens of his tribesmen who started checking cars, they violated our brothers many
       times, they even announced it, then our brothers attacked the field leader, the
       brain behind people revolting at al-Anbar in AlbuFahd, so the brothers raided his
       house in the middle of the night wearing the national guards uniform and driving
       similar cars, they took him and killed him thank god. The next morning his
       households and neighbors started talking to the tribe saying it was the national
       guards, they added that they heard some of them speaking English, meaning that
       the Americans are the ones who took Abu Dhari (Sheik Nasr al-Fahdawi), no one
       claimed responsibility for his killing, thank god.

   2- Around the same period, our brothers on the other side of Uphrate river, killed
      Jasim al-`Awwad in al-Malahima and AlbuHazim, he's considered as important
      as Abu Dhari in AlbuFahd, he's a big spy / agent, invited Americans to his house
      for big dinner parties many times, regardless, our brothers didn't claim
      resposibility for killing him.

   3- After our brothers killed three of the infidels in AlbuFahd, some of them claimed
      he's for Jihad, at the same time, protects with his soldiers the election centers, and
      encourages people to volunteers in the police force and the Iraqi army, and it was
      the second hit for Nasr al-Fahdawi. In the morning infidels announced in their
      satellite channels that Nasr al-Fahdawi welcomed Ibrahim al-Ja'fari in Ramadi,
      then by noon, they announced his assasination, thank god. Then there was a
      complete change of events than is was before thank god, cousins of Sheik Nasr
      came to the Mujahidin begging, announcing their repentance and innocense,
      saying we're with you, we'll do whatever you want. The turmoil is over, our
      brothers now are roaming the streets of AlbuFahd without any checkpoints.

For the other tribes, their reaction was as follows:

1- Sheik of al-Bubali tribe in al-Jazira, Sheik Sarhan, who's one of the traitors, and every
time one of their traitors gets killed, he shows outrage and packs his tribe with their guns
against the brothers, after the cleaning in AlbuFahd, the brothers killed three of the spies
in his tribe, and for the first time there was no reaction against the brothers, but instead he
came to them, asking for forgiveness, and he's ready to cooperate.

2- Sheik of Albu'Ubaid (Salah al-Dhari), who slaughtered thirty sheeps in one dinner
party, where he invited heads and Sheiks of tribes in Ramadi, to encourage their youth to
join the police and the national guard, and that's two days before the murder of Sheik
Nasr al-Fahdawi, after that he announced his repentance at the mosque twice infront of
Albu'Ubaid tribe, denouncing who joins the police and army, and sorry for all he's done,
without any pressure or threats from the brothers, also the brothers didn't announce the
claim for any of the killings. When Mazhar al-`Alawani a candidate for the elections was
murdered, his pictures were all over Ramadi, where the entire Albu'Alwan tribe was
supporting him, proud of him, one day before the elections, the brothers killed him while
he was visiting Ramadi, no one from his tribe openned his mouth, instead they got more
 scared and weaker. The same with the killing of Muhammad Saddak the Sheik of
AlbuJlayb tribe, and president of al-Anbar revolutionists, who released statements in
mosques and markets, promising to eliminate who he called Sheiks of sodomite and thift,
and agents for the Zionists, like our brother Abu Mustafa Midhatt, our brother Abu
Khattab, and Sheik Abu al-Harith al-Shar'i, and many others, this vicious organization
(al-Anbar revolutionists) attempted to assasinate our brother Abu Khudayr, in Ramadi,
when armed men shot him, was injured in the thigh. Sheik Muhammad Saddak said
himself that he's nominated for the position of the interior minister, and Sheik Nasr al-
Fahdawi for the governor of Anbar, like the Americans promised him, and Abu Raghghal
al-Dulaymi and others thank god, his was eliminated by the brothers inside the city of
Baghdad, until now no one knows who killed him in Baghdad, with all that, our policy is
to eliminate the heads of infidelity without any announcements.

 As for the heads of the Islamic Party, our brothers been monitoring them for so long, but
ignored them during the elections, then their vicious role appeared, with their call to form
police and army after the elections, we found that the main thinker behind the Party's
ideas is Sheik Abd al-Ghafur al-Kubaysi the Imam and speaker of of al-Shafi'i mosque in
Ramadi, and made his mosque the center of all the Party's meetings, with all that, he
didn't stop fighting the brothers with his speeches at the mosque, so the brothers
assasinated him near his house, after he left the mosque going home, and there was no
reaction by the Islamic Party or people, except that they raised signs condemning the
killing. The same thing exactly happened after the killing of Abu Bilal in Ramadi, the
manager of the media office at the Islamic Party as it was announced in some media
sources, he disallowed and torn any Jihad related posters on the walls, he was caught in
the act by the brothers, they beat him and arrested him, he routed out lots of the Party's
leaders, like Abd al-Ghafur al-Kubaysi, and their conspiracies against the Tanzim (al-
Qa'ida organization), he was ill, got transferred to a hospital where he later died, there
were no puplicity to his death by people, expect condemning it by the corrupted satellite
channels. We did not follow this policy until we ran out of time, from past experience
where we let things go, like Kataib al-Hamza (Hamza brigades), and AlbuMahal tribe in
al-Qaim, where we should've eliminated them then, but what happened happened, also
Muhsin Abd al-Hamid etc... and you Sheik said that yourself god bless you, also in
Fallujah where brothers neglected on killing the heads of infidelity, and what happened
also happened.

 Now we have Kabisah, this small village announced this week that 130 policemen
volunteered from there, next day they started working, it was secretly prepared from
before, and the Islamic Party was behind recruiting those policemen, like we proved.
Our state council forbids from targeting Sunni police, or killing and eliminating the
infidels and traitors without going back to the council, and you know that assasinations
are about good apportunities, and monitoring a person could take days or weeks. The
best solution is to cut the head of the snake.
We say that the brothers are following this method, that's what we learned from you and
promised you, I said that this is Abu Bakr's period, toughness toughness, we in Iraq will
defend the muslim nation, and Jihad is everybody's responsibility, don't miss it.
 Other groups pretends that they never killed an Iraqi or Sunni in particular, and that its
goals are patriotic, what we know about our Jihad, that it's Jihad of faith, and what you
stated over and over before my Sheik about the method of the group, and the honorable
resistance in many of the speeches to our brothers and people, in fact Sheik we are joyous
for forming the state council, although we say, to save this blessed work, which we pray
to god that Islam and muslims would benefit from it, everyone should agree on our policy
in the war against the renegade, without these restrictions we have at the state council.
We have no problem with you saying for us to give the name of the person before killing
him, but we owe god, this will only be a delay for us, and time is not on our side, and for
you to say to kill him outside his city, sometimes it take months before the person leaves
his city, like if it's in Baghdad for example, that's difficult, and time is not on our side,
we waited to cut the heads of the renegades in Hit, then 130 renegades came out to us for
the reason that we didn't destroy the Islamic Party there, but we're working on it, for
example we didn't kill Nasr al-Fahdawi at his home in al-Sajriyah, but the guys waited
for him until he got out of the Ramadi province.

We need premission for these names:

1- Sheik Hatim Abd al-Razzaq Mu'jil al-Ka'ud, Sheik AlbuNimr tribe.
2- Sheik Anwar Abd al-Razzaq al-Kharbit, AlbuKhalifah.
3- Sa'id Nattah, one of AlbuJlayb Sheiks.
4- Maj. Gen Sa'ab al-Rawi.
5- Dr. Muhammad Mahmud Latif, Prince of the movement.
6- Maj. Gen. Khalid `Arrak Hutaymi.
7- Mamun al-`Alwani, al-Anbar governor, attached to you the security report in
   Ramadi.
8- Zahir Muhammad `Awwad al-`Ubaydi, manager of Sunni endowment, for attending
   the last meeting with al-Ja'fari, also for attending a conference in Jordan, that was
   presesnted to you, he's one of the people calling to form the police and national
   guard, we'll kill him outside al-Ramadi zone, when he goes to the government
   building.

<LU_ANNOTATE>
We have restrictions on beheading the heads of the Islamic Party members, the Sheik of
the tribes, and renegages, present it to the council if you prefer:

1- There must be time priorities.
2- Must differenciate between the infidels, which is in the public eyes, and who works
   behind the scenes, as a mastermind.
3- Must differenciate between who's in the village, where relations are stronger, than it
   is in the city, where there's different people with different ideas.
4- Differenciate between an area where there are brothers have interests in (financial ?
   religious), and area they don't.
5- Differenciate between who's in a position where he's liked and respected, and
   another who's not.
 6- There's who we prepare for him in few steps, like bringing him down through the
    media, then kill him, or kill his assistant who does the work for him, and see his
    reaction, then kill him, or fight him through the media, until his publicity is dead.
7- First kill the corrupted and the ones with negative effects , before the ones who try to
    guide people, and has a positive effect.
8- Differenciate between targets in the Islamic Party, or the Ba'ath Party, who proved
    their failur to people in running the nation, and Sheiks and leaders of the tribes where
    most people especially in villages love and respect them, the first kind's reaction is
    lefting signs and comdemning, the second kind blames, and sometime opens a front
    against us.
9- Whoever we can't kill, and can't reach, we shhould at least warn or threaten him so
    he could back off at least.
10- I case there was a tribe who's not obaying, and their renegade is abvious, the
    Mujahidin release a statement to expose them, with mass media, then do vicious
    military operations against them, so they would be a lesson to others.
11- If the targer was decent, and has good reputation, but he's a hypocrite, only teases
    the Mujahidin, we kill him gradually, by killing his big supporters.
12- We should make the public and the ignorant know clearly about our policy fighting
    the renegades, so they won't side with them for their fight against the Mujahidin.
13- Priority in killing those who are damaging to us and mulims, before the ones who are
    not.
</LU_ANNOTATE WC=384>

 With stating this to you, we know your intend, whenever we meet with you, you tell us
that this is the right way, but we want this in writing by the state council, so all of our
members would observe it, but if it's not writtin it will go away after you're gone, if you
die of get killed, the council after you inshallh (in god's well) will stay on good grounds,
where the fate of an entire nation depends on it, god is the protector of his religion, let's
have a big role in it, we ask god to keep us guided not lost.
 