GEORGIA : Shevardnadze hails CIS decision on Abkhazia .
	

    Shevardnadze hails CIS decision on Abkhazia .
	

    Lawrence Sheets
	

    TBILISI 1997-03-31
	

    Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze on Monday hailed a decision by the Commonwealth of Independent States to extend Russia's peacekeeping role in breakaway Abkhazia , but separatists there poured scorn on it .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "the 2500 russian peacekeepers", "Abkhaz".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "the 2500 russian peacekeepers", "Abkhaz".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "the 2500 russian peacekeepers", "Abkhaz".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "the 2500 russian peacekeepers", "Abkhaz".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "the 2500 russian peacekeepers", "Abkhaz".]
	

    Shevardnadze said CIS leaders had agreed in Moscow on Friday that a 24-km ( 15-mile ) wide zone along the de_facto border between Georgia and Abkhazia would be extended several km ( miles ) deeper into the independence-minded region .
	

    The 2,500 Russian peacekeepers are to be given policing powers to help guarantee the safety of returning Georgian refugees , most of whom fled following a 1993 separatist takeover after Abkhaz irregulars drove out the Georgian army .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "the separatist victory"]
	

    "_ Step by step we are moving forward .
	

    A bold example of this is that there is the real prospect that ( some of ) the population can return to ( Abkhazia ) , _" Shevardnadze said in his weekly radio address .
	

    Shevardnadze had said last week that the peacekeepers would have to leave if Russia did not give Georgia , devastated by civil and ethnic conflict since it became independent in 1991 , more help in restoring control over Abkhazia .
	

    Many Georgian politicians want the peacekeepers to go and also demand that Russia leave three military bases it still has in the southern Caucasus state of about six million people .
	

    The Abkhaz government , based in the regional capital Sukhumi , condemned the decision by the 12-nation CIS which rose form the ashes of the Soviet Union .
	

    The decision means that the separatists will in effect lose control of more territory .
	

    The speaker of the Abkhaz parliament , Sokrat Dzhindzholia , told Interfax news agency the move was "_ adopted without taking into account Abkhazia's opinion , one-sided and repressive . _"
     Comments: i don't want to mark this sentence as important, but it is needed as it provides the referent for "Dzhindzholia" in other marked sentences.
     Link: [Comments: provides referent for "Dhindzholia".]
	

    Dzhindzholia said Abkhazia would not allow the so-called "_ security zone _" which is under the peacekeepers' control to be extended .
	

    He said the parliament would meet in an extraordinary session on April 1 to discuss the issue .
	

    He said Abkhazia might insist that the contingent is removed entirely and that he did not fear a new Georgian offensive .
	

    "_ The armed forces of the republic are capable of independently guaranteeing it_ 's security , _" he told Interfax .
	

    Shevardnadze said his Defence Minister , Vardiko Nadibaidze , had stayed in Moscow to work out details of the new peacekeeping mandate with Russian officials .
	

    Abkhazia , a land of snow-capped peaks and subtropical palm-fringed beaches , is in the northwestern corner of Georgia and was a favourite haunt of the Soviet communist elite .
	

    Tension between the minority Abkhaz and local Georgians , who once made up nearly half the pre-war population of 550,000 , spilled into bloodshed in 1992 when rag-tag Georgian military outfits stormed in to put down demands for more sovereignty .
	

    Russian military help was instrumental in the separatist victory after a year of fighting which killed more than 10,000 fighters and civilians .
	

    Relations between Tbilisi and Moscow were at a low ebb at the time .
	

    But Russia , facing its own separatist rebellion in the north Caucasus region of Chechnya and fearing a "_ domino effect _" in other regions , now broadly supports Georgia over Abkhazia and helps enforce a partial economic blockade of the province .
	

    Local Armenians and other ethnic groups in Abkhazia generally supported the Abkhaz in the conflict , when minorities feared what they called a wave of nationalism in Georgia .
