 USA : GOLF-ELKINGTON ROMPS TO SEVEN-SHOT VICTORY IN FLORIDA .
 GOLF-ELKINGTON ROMPS TO SEVEN-SHOT VICTORY IN FLORIDA .
	
    PONTE VEDRA BEACH , Florida 1997-03-30
	

     Steve Elkington birdied the first four holes on the first day and never looked back , beating the best field in PGA history to win the Players Championship by a record seven strokes Sunday .
	

     Elkington , who won here in 1991 , shot a 3-under-par 69 $-- his fourth straight round in the 60s $-- and finished at 16-under 272 , seven shots in front of Scott Hoch .
	

     Elkington won $630,000 .
	

     Loren Roberts shot a final-round 69 and was third at 8-under 280 , one shot better than Brad Faxon , who carded a 70 .
	

     Billy Andrade struggled to a 74 and was fifth at 282 , just in front of 1996 Player of the Year Tom Lehman , who had a 72 .
	

     "_ I basically blew away the best field we_ 've ever had , and it_ 's something I did_ n't know I was capable of .
	

     It was an unbelievable day for me .
	

     Leading this tournament wire to wire was the most difficult thing I_ 've done in golf , _" Elkington said .
	

     The 1995 PGA Championship winner vaulted past Mark O'Meara to the top of the money list with $984,400 in just four events .
	

     He won the Doral Open three weeks ago and joined O'Meara as the only multiple winners on Tour this year .
	

     While Elkington won a_lot_of money , Davis Love III gave away more than $105,000 .
	

     Love would have finished tied for seventh had he not signed an incorrect scorecard caused by a mistake at the 17th hole .
	

     Love accidentally hit his ball with a practice swing .
	

     He did not replace the ball and scored himself a bogey 4 rather_than a double-bogey 5 , accounting for the one-shot penalty .
	

     For the first time in PGA Tour history , the top 50 players in the world rankings were entered in the same event .
	

     Elkington's margin of victory broke the record of five strokes set by Lanny Wadkins in 1979 and matched by Nick Price four years ago .
	

    Elkington squandered half of a four-shot lead when he bogeyed the final two holes Saturday .
	

     But he shook that off with a solid start Sunday .
	

     His birdie at the par-3 eighth hole extended his lead to six shots .
	

     Elkington bogeyed just once , on the par five 11th when he failed to get out_of a bunker .
	

     The final birdie came on the 18th hole when Elkington chipped in from 30 feet . "_ I chuckled to myself that that_ 's the way it goes when you_ 're playing well , _" Elkington said .
	

     Thinking ahead to the Masters in two weeks , Elkington said : "_ The confidence I_ 've got now should help me immensely , but at Augusta I either finish top five or I miss the cut .
	

     I can never predict how I_ 'll do there . _"
	

     Hoch , the 1989 Masters runner-up who has won once in each of the last three years , got off to an awful start and never recovered .
	

     He dropped two strokes over the first four holes and stumbled to a 2-over 74 for 9-under 279 .
	

     "_ After the 14th hole or so it would have taken an act of God for me to catch him .
	

   I had an opportunity today , but Steve shut that down for me , _" said Hoch .
	

     Elkington assured himself of the biggest win margin and a fourth straight sub-70 round when he birdied the par-4 18th $-- a nice turnaround from his bogey-bogey finish on Saturday .
	

     "_ Steve's a ( Nick ) Faldo-like player in that he can keep it in play and make pars when he has to and never give up the lead , _" Faxon said .
	

     Defending champion Fred Couples had a hole-in-one en_route to a 69 for 3-under 285 , 13 shots off the pace .
	

     He was not a factor , and neither were big names such as Greg Norman , Nick Faldo and 21-year-old sensation Tiger Woods , who has now gone 13 straight weeks without a win .
	

Norman muddled to a 79 and finished at 6-over 294 .
	

     Faldo had four rounds of 71 or better for par 288 .
	

     Woods , playing in his first Players Championship , also was 71 or worse in each round and finished at 1-over 289 .
	

     The TPC at Sawgrass golf course is a par-72 that measures 6,896 yards .
	

     The final day of the tournament also was notable by the announcement by John Daly that he is entering the Betty Ford Centre for the second time to battle alcohol abuse .
	

    Daly , who has two major championships and two suspensions during his rollercoaster PGA Tour career , withdrew from the tourney on Friday after reportedly damaging his hotel room Thursday night following an evening of drinking .
