	
SHUTTLEWORTH-MBEKI by Mariette le Roux BLOEMFONTEIN April 27 Sapa MBEKI SPEAKS TO `AFRONAUT' IN OUTER SPACE 
	
	
 Contact was made on Saturday between outer space and the Free State city of Bloemfontein when President Thabo Mbeki spoke to Africa's first astronaut Mark Shuttleworth, aboard the International Space Station. 
	
	
 Speaking via a live satellite link from Bloemfontein, the president praised the so-called "Afronaut" for his contribution to science and Africa's renaissance. "Yes ambassador, how are you?" Mbeki started the 10-minute conversation, broadcast live at the Free State rugby stadium. Shuttleworth described his journey so far as very exciting, saying the flight had been smooth and everything was going according to plan. 
	
	
 "I have had moments of terror and moments of sheer exhilaration," he proclaimed. "I have never seen anything as beautiful as earth from space. I cannot imagine anything as beautiful as that." The 28-year-old Internet millionaire said he was sleeping comfortably, and the food was not too bad either. He showed the president an empty tin of what had contained his lunch - pork and potato. 
	
	
 "So far, we've only come to try the Russian food, which was tasty. I am sure the American food will be just as good," Shuttleworth told the president. He also reported that he had started setting up for several scientific experiments he was planning to do on board the ISS. 
	
	
 Mbeki expressed South Africa's pride at Shuttleworth's efforts, saying they would go a long way towards inspiring young people to take up subjects like engineering, mathematics and science. Shuttleworth agreed that this was essential towards Africa's rebirth. He said he had seen the most magnificent sunset and sunrise over Africa, at which Mbeki asked him to bring pictures "so that we can know what we look like to you from up there". 
	
	
 South Africans should be looking up smiling when he returns, Shuttleworth replied. Shuttleworth also expressed his condolences to the family and friends of Safety and Security Minister Steve Tshwete, who died on Friday night, a message Mbeki undertook to convey. The president then toasted Shuttleworth with a glass of champagne, saying: "I am sure this will go down in our history as one of those moments where we made quite a leap forward." 
	
	
 Shuttleworth, accompanied by Russian flight commander Yury Gidzenko and Italian cosmonaut Roberto Vittori, reached the ISS at 0755 GMT, two days after blasting off from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. The world's second space tourist, Shuttleworth was paying 20 million dollars for his 10-day journey into space, where he would carry out experiments into the HI virus which causes AIDS. The team is to return to earth on May 5. 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /mlr/shob Date : 27 Apr 2002 14:16	


