	
Leaders of the United States probably withheld their breath Monday evening while watching on television what Russian President Vladimir Putin was about to say to his people. After Putin's statement they rubbed their palms at length. It amounted to much more than what one could have expected. The military great power that towers over Afghanistan has committed itself to overthrow the ruling Taliban system, and has pledged to support the US "anti-terrorism military operation" now being prepared. Putin has exceeded the "positive neutrality policy" his country (the Soviet Union at the time) has pursued during the Gulf War, and whose continued validity the military leaders also regarded as desirable. The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic. These countries are Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. Although these are sovereign states, and the final decision would have been in their hands, people familiar with the actual balance of power indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen. 
	
	
 One cannot underestimate the significance of the fact that Russia has opened its airspace. True, Putin only permitted (Americans) to deliver via Russian airspace aid to the "theater of the anti-terrorism military operations," (i.e. not soldiers and weapons). Nevertheless, this amounts to such high degree of Russian-American cooperation in a wartime situation, the two sides have never attained during the past 10 years. And Putin has established the prospect of taking further steps in this regard. 
	
	
 Accordingly, Russia has joined the anti-terrorist coalition of the United States virtually without reservation. Putin has written the name of Moscow on the registration page of the American side. He wanted to become an ally, and that's what he has become. But making this complex decision was not easy for him. Reformers told Putin all along that he should take advantage of "the rare opportunity for (Russia) to become integrated with the civilized world." But main stream Russian military policy has been to keep a distance from America, the country that has been historically responsible for "educating" the Taliban that had caused the demise of Soviet occupation forces in Afghanistan. In the end, a certain consideration that differed from the above two proved to be decisive. It had to do with Chechnya. Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of "international terror." He did not succeed with that so far. He was criticized more than recognized for his policy. At this time however, he taught a lesson to the Americans. After the Americans had promised everything good and nice, Putin remarked almost as an aside that the events in Chechnia "could be interpreted only in the context of the struggle against international terrorism." In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way. Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents. Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to "unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups," and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace. If we view this warning against the background that Putin's government has always seen Usama Bin Ladin's hands behind "Chechen terrorism," we were witnessing a late recognition of Moscow's views. 
	
	
 The Russian President has understood this American recognition. In Berlin, where he was the center of stormy celebration, he vindicated for himself the deeper truth that may be seen behind terror. He argued that had the West not continued to keep alive during the past several years the Cold War stereotype of a threat from the East, but would have concentrated instead on terrorism, the common enemy, the twin towers of New York may not have collapsed. "Accordingly, at this time it is your turn to think," Putin said. Feeling like a true ally, he was able to ask for a place for Russia almost inconspicuously - in NATO. This would have been a joke only yesterday. Today, at the threshold of expansion, it is no longer a joke. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


