YUGOSLAVIA : Serbia still in search for a buyer of PTT stake .
	

    Serbia still in search for a buyer of PTT stake .
	

    Gordana Filipovic
	

    BELGRADE 1997-03-31
	

    Serbia has not yet chosen a future foreign partner in a planned privatisation of its post and telecommunications monopoly PTT Srbije , Minister for Economic and Ownership Transformation Milan Beko said on Monday .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referents for "He", "only profitable company", "Beko", "PTT Srbije", "the minister", "PTT", "the PTT stake". "Serbia" in s1 is synonymous with "the government" in a later sentence, so is its referent.]
	

    "_ No decision has been made yet , _" he told Reuters .
	

    He said some circumstances under which Serbia was discussing privatisation of its only profitable company were not favourable .
	

    "_ Yugoslavia faces a slow return to world financial institutions .
	

    But apart_from that , there is a strong political will to begin with radical reforms , which bodes well for a quick start of privatising PTT , _" Beko said .
	

    Beko , recently appointed as the first Serbian privatisation minister , denied rumours that Italian state telecommunications holding Stet was chosen to buy a 49 percent stake in PTT Srbije and that the Italian company was offering equipment instead_of cash .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides referent for "Stet".]
	

    "_ The Italian company is very interested in PTT Srbije and we did have several rounds of talks , _" Beko said .
	

    "_ We talked about selling between 30 and 49 percent of the PTT telecom's capital .
	

    But we also made it very clear that any sale can_ not exceed 49 percent of the telecom's entire capital , _" he said .
	

    "_ Until now it was more_like a fact-finding mission , to give all interested parties necessary details and allow them to make their own , independent evaluation of the company , _" Beko added .
	

    He expected further discussions to focus on issues of tariffs , monopolies and licences for a mobile telephone system .
	

    Beside Stet , Greek OTE Telecom , Korea's and French telecom companies were cited as showing the most interest .
	

    According_to the new draft privatisation law , no international tenders will be invited for the sale of the PTT stake .
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain the "Instead" link in s2.]
	

    Instead , the government has already sent a basic information package to a large number of companies worldwide .
	

    The minister said the estimated value of the PTT's entire capital was still not ready to go public , to protect the government's negotiating position .
	

    But preliminary estimates prepared by the Belgrade-based private institute for economic research CES-Mecon valued the Serbian telecommunications unit at around $4 billion .
	

    The government has appointed the NatWest Markets as the chief consultant and entrusted Pricewater House with preparing a detailed evaluation of the company .
	

    But any sale of the PTT's stake had to wait for a division of the company's postal and telecommunications units .
	

    The company sources said the division was planned for May .
	

    "_ The postal unit will remain entirely state owned , while telecommunications will be transformed and offered for sale .
	

    Privatisation receipts will be also used to upgrade the postal services , _" Beko said .
	

    Independent economists cautioned that in the absence of funds the government might use privatisation receipts to finance its massive public spending .
	

    But Beko said : "_ Those receipts will be exclusively used for investment in various development projects $-- infrastructure and agriculture .
	

    No money will be used to finance public spending since it would directly generate inflation . _"
	

    The minister could not specify when to expect the final decision on the sale , but hoped it would begin during 1997 .
	

    "_ Personally , I would like it to begin as soon as possible , but any sale must be finalised only at a real market price , _" he said .
	

    Along_with the PTT , Serbia also intended to privatise its power industry EPS and oil industry NIS .
	

    "_ We need to technologically upgrade those infrastructure systems because only modern infrastructure can follow demands of a modern economic system , and will attract more investment into other industries , _" he said , adding Serbia lacked its own funds to finance a new and rapidly changing telecom technology .
	

    $-- Belgrade newsroom , +381 11_222 4254
