	
The Zionist and US administrations have the illusion that they succeeded in defeating the Palestinian people and their valiant intifadah. Therefore, the two administrations, from the position of a "victor," have called for an international or regional peace conference. They have also announced that President Yasir Arafat is no longer fit for the coming phase. In addition, they seek to convince other parties of these two ideas and are waiting for the concerned parties to agree to them, or, at least, to the first one, after which these two administrations will set their own conditions at the table. 
	
	
 It is true that the Palestinian towns are now under occupation, that the Palestinian Authority's institutions have been destroyed, and that Arafat is still besieged at his office as a hostage. It is also true that thousands of Palestinians and their leaders are held hostage, and that the entire Palestinian people are now experiencing the utmost suffering as part of their daily lives. All this is one thing, but the Palestinian people's will is something different. 
	
	
 The Zionists have succeeded in achieving these things, but a deep-rooted fact is that they have not succeeded, and will never succeed, in breaking the will of this valiant people or in forcing the Palestinians into relinquishing their just, legitimate rights and ending their glorious struggle for these rights. It is thus an illusion for these criminal administrations to imagine that they have triumphed and that they are now in a position to dictate their own conditions on this great people. The real victor in this battle is, in fact, the Palestinian people and not the Zionists. 
	
	
 For many reasons, the occupation of Palestinian towns cannot last, so the Zionist forces will have to withdraw from these towns sooner or later. In addition, it is now more impossible than ever to control the movement of three million Palestinians. This is actually one of the deep-rooted facts. 
	
	
 As for the towns and refugee camps that have been destroyed, they will soon be reconstructed by the Palestinian people who have skillfully adapted themselves to the most difficult circumstances. This reconstruction will take place more quickly than what the criminals in Tel Aviv and Washington think. 
	
	
 Most importantly, however, these criminals will have the largest illusion if they imagine that they have succeeded in liquidating the intifadah and destroying its infrastructure after having succeeded in liquidating or arresting a small or large number of the intifadah's leaders and strugglers. Another deep-rooted fact is that the organizations of the Palestinian resistance still preserve their organizational structure and are also characterized by their superb ability to renew their leaders and replace the ones who fall along the path of martyrdom. These criminals know this fact, as much as we, the Arabs, do, because they are in direct contact with it. 
	
	
 As for the intifadah's infrastructure, it has actually widened and turned into volcanoes that are boiling with rage. As has been acknowledged by Uri Avneri, a veteran Zionist writer, the intifadah's structure "exists within millions of Palestinians and also within tens of millions of Arabs in whose chests the fire of anger is blazing." He added: "If more fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones fall, other fighters and martyrdom-seeking ones will emerge, who are ready to follow in their footsteps." 
	
	
 The conclusion to which we come is that the Zionist and US administrations have aggravated the Zionist entity's historical impasse through the crime they have committed together when they had the illusion that "force" can break the Palestinian people's will and impose on this people what other means failed to impose. 
	
	
 Contrary to the visible scene and to the illusion of Sharon and Bush, this Zionist-US crime has confirmed that the Zionist entity's historical impasse is constantly aggravating and that "the Arabs' recognition of this entity's right to exist" is now more distant than before despite some official Arab "recognitions." Millions of Arabs, Palestinians and non-Palestinians alike, now have a conviction stronger than before to the effect that it is impossible to achieve "coexistence" with this usurping, occupying, aggressive, and racist entity. 
	
	
	


