SOUTH KOREA : Little impact seen from Seoul shareholding change .
	

    Little impact seen from Seoul shareholding change .
	

    Yoo Choon-sik
	

    SEOUL 1997-03-31
	

    South Korea on Monday raised the ceiling for foreign share-ownership by three percentage points , but analysts said they saw little short-term impact on the local stock market because_of poor fundamentals .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides a referent for s2's "the country".]
	

    The Finance Ministry said it would raise the aggregate foreign ownership ceiling to 23 percent of a listed company from the current 20 percent , effective from May 1 .
	

    Ministry officials said the move , along_with other steps to open wider the local capital market , was aimed at attracting foreign funds to put a brake on the local currency's fall .
	

    The announcement was made shortly after the close of trade on Monday , but the share market rallied to end 1.52 percent higher on the belief that an announcement was imminent .
	

    The composite index gained 10.15 points to 677.34 .
	

    Analysts welcomed the move , but said immediate beneficiaries would be limited to a handful of blue chips in which foreigners are interested .
	

    Most other firms would be ignored unless their economic fundamentals improved , they said .
	

    "_ I do_ n't think foreigners will turn aggressive ( buyers ) unless the current account turns around , _" said Lee Keun-mo , head of research at ING-Baring Securities . "_ I do_ n't expect much from the announcement . _"
	

    The ministry said it expected the increased ceiling to bring a further $3 billion into the market , but securities analysts estimated the fresh inflow of funds at between $500 million and $600 million .
	

    Analysts said the country's growing current account deficit and the resulting depreciation of the won are the main factors discouraging foreign investment in local stocks .
	

    The deficit widened to $2.45 billion in February from $1.98 billion a year earlier .
	

    Last year , the deficit rose to a record $23.72 billion compared to an $8.95 billion shortfall in 1996 .
	

    Namuh Rhee , head of research at Dongbang Peregrine Securities , also played down the likely impact of the expanded ownership ceiling .
	

    "_ Most of the rebound we saw in the past couple of days reflected the expected increase in the foreign investment limit .
	

    Therefore , I think the actual announcement will have a limited impact , _" Rhee said .
	

    The expansion of the ceiling was in line with South Korea's earlier plan that called for a three-percentage-point increase by the end of this year .
	

    The government had earlier said a further three percentage point rise in the limit would take place in 1998 and 1999 , and the ceiling would be removed altogether in 2000 .
	

    But the Finance Ministry said it was considering further expanding the ceiling within this year .
	

    Analysts said Samsung Electronics Co , SK Telecom Co , Pohang Iron and Steel Co , Kookmin Bank and Shinhan Bank would benefit most from the increased ceiling .
	

    "_ Foreigners are paying premiums over the counter for these shares , _" said Rhee .
	

    The aggregate foreign ownership ceiling on "_ strategically important _" Pohang Iron and Korea Electric Power Corp will be raised to 18 percent from the current 15 percent .
	

    At the end of February , foreigners held 989.12 million shares , or 11.43 percent of total listed local shares , according_to the Securities Supervisory Board .
