USA : US Treasuries end mixed as stocks slide sharply .
	

    US Treasuries end mixed as stocks slide sharply .
	

    Ellen Freilich
	

    NEW YORK 1997-03-31
	

    U.S. Treasuries ended mixed on Monday as quarter-end portfolio adjustments and a steep slide in the stock market aided shorter-term securities , analysts said .
	

    The bellwether 30-year bond ended off 4/32 at 94-5/32 .
	

    Its yield finished at 7.10 percent , the highest since the 30-year bond yield ended at 7.11 percent on September 11 , 1996 .
	

    In contrast , securities along the rest of the maturity curve edged higher , especially bills and shorter-term notes .
	

    Three-month bill rates fell four basis points to 5.19 percent .
	

    Six-month bill rates fell five basis points to 5.31 percent .
	

    Year bill rates fell two basis points to 5.67 pct .
	

    The market got two economic reports on Monday .
	

    The government said U.S. personal income rose 0.9 percent in February while U.S. personal spending rose just 0.3 percent .
	

    Charles Lieberman , chief economist at Chase Securities Inc. , said the strong gain in personal income came as no surprise since Labor Department data had already showed that payrolls had grown strongly and that the workweek had also lengthened in February .
	

    The fact that personal income was up more sharply than spending indicated that consumers still have the capacity to spend in the future , a bullish sign for the economy .
	

    The Chicago Purchasing Managers said its index rose to 57.5 in March from 56.2 in February .
	

    A reading over 50 on the index points to an expanding economy and the market weakened a_little on that report , traders said .
	

    "_ After last week's rate increase , we are left trying to figure out how much the Federal Reserve is going to tighten and presumably that is based on how much one thinks the economy will or will not slow down , _" Lieberman said .
     Comments: speech, but more important than other parts of the text that aren't
	

    The stock market's plunge of 157.11 points on the Dow , or 2.33 percent , on Monday , following a steep slide on Thursday , probably aided the short end of the maturity curve in the bond market , analysts said .
	

    "_ You did have some evidence of a heightened preference for liquidity , _" said William Sullivan , senior vice president and director of fixed-income research at Dean Witter Reynolds .
	

    "_ It_ 's hard to tell whether it was a function of what took place in the equity market or quarter end portfolio adjustments .
	

    But both bill and short-coupon yields edged a_bit lower while the back end languished . _"
	

    Patrick Dimick , trader and Treasury strategist at UBS Securities Inc. , said the front end of the Treasury curve "_ is going to continue to draw some support from flight to quality buying if this stock market carnage continues to grow .
	

    The stock market's Dow blue chip index has fallen about seven percent from its all-time high of 7112.10 achieved earlier this year .
	

    Dimick said that since the Fed raised rates on March 25 , Treasury bills and short coupons "_ have dramatically outperformed intermediate and longer-dated paper , in large part because_of the equity market dynamics . _"
	

    A stock market-driven flight-to-quality bid at the front end of the Treasury "_ will complicate life greatly _" for people who have placed trades based on the expectation that the yield curve will flatten , Dimick said .
	

    Those people were betting that a strong economy would prompt the Fed to raise rates again , a move that would be accompanied by further deterioration at the short end of the market but which could bolster the long end by assuring long-term investors that the Fed was vigilantly fighting inflation .
	

    But the curve flattening trade could get undermined by the flight-to-quality dynamic created by the equity market , Dimick said .
	

    Year bill rates slipped two basis points to 5.67 percent on Monday .
	

    Two-year note prices rose 1/32 to 99-21/32 , yielding 6.44 percent .
	

    Support for that maturity was cited at 6.45 percent .
	

    The five-year note climbed 3/32 to 99-14/32 to yield 6.76 percent and the ten-year was up 1/32 at 95-11/32 to yield 6.91 percent .
	

    ( ( $-- N.A. Treasury Desk , 212-859-1679 ) )
