
   Argentina braces for currency fall

 



 


 BUENOS AIRES - Nostalgia runs deep in Argentina. Even before its 
faltering economy produced an epic-sized default, and the 
country was thrust into its worst crisis since democracy was 
restored in 1983, Argentines were obsessed with their past 
triumphs.

  But now a different variety of nostalgia appears to be emerging. 
Some call it the Ford Falcon syndrome, a reference to the 
classic gas-guzzler that inefficient Argentine automakers 
continued to turn out in droves 20 years after it disappeared 
from US showrooms.

  The man whom some economists say is leading the step backward in 
time is the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, 
Argentina's fifth in two weeks. After four years of crippling 
recession, Duhalde and others are questioning whether 
Argentina's decade-long pursuit of free market reforms is the 
right solution.

  With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the 
two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de 
la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of 
emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal 
economic reforms.

  On Friday, President Duhalde asked Congress for broad new powers 
to end the country's decade-old currency regime that pegs the 
peso to the US dollar, to intervene in the banking system, to 
institute price controls, and to protect local industry and 
jobs. It was approved overwhelmingly by the lower house of 
Congress late Saturday and was expected to be passed by the 
Senate yesterday.

  Everyone from the International Monetary Fund in Washington to 
the traditional protectionists in Buenos Aires thought 
devaluation was necessary, if painful. But some analysts are 
concerned that Duhalde will follow it up with a return to the 
protectionism and failed policies that dominated the country's 
economy for half of this past century, until ex-President Carlos 
Menem changed course last decade and ushered in an era of 
stability.

  "He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the 
same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America 
rejected a decade ago," says Christopher Ecclestone, head of 
investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust.

  Duhalde's embrace of the past can be partly explained by the 
nature of the Peronists themselves, whom Argentine literary 
giant Jorge Luis Borges once referred to as neither good nor 
bad, just incorrigible.

  The party, founded by Gen. Juan Domingo Peron in the 1940s, has 
long dominated Argentine politics, thanks to a deft mix of 
populist policies, nationalist rhetoric, and political 
patronage. A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52 
percent of Argentines "highly" in favor of Duhalde's stated 
economic plans and another 34 percent giving him "medium" 
approval - an indication of public confidence.

  But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and 
international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding 
further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back 
the clock even if he wanted to.

  For starters, there's a wariness among economists that an 
expected 30 to 40 percent devaluation could spark a return to 
the chaotic days of the late 1980s, when 5,000-percent inflation 
was rampant. Already, everything from bread to computer parts 
has been marked up by as much as 20 percent in anticipation of 
the devaluation.

  To contain inflation and fill an expected $11 billion budget 
deficit this year, government officials say a rescue package of 
at least $15 billion is needed from the IMF and other lenders. 
Otherwise, the country's cash-strapped banks, which are being 
forced to accept lesser-valued pesos for loans made almost 
entirely in dollars, will collapse.

  But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's 
moribund economy to elicit much support abroad. In fact, quite 
the contrary.

  Already a swarm of powerful lobbies representing foreign 
companies have descended on Buenos Aires to fight government 
plans to introduce price and capital controls. The government is 
also taking heat for its plans to violate privatization 
contracts signed a decade ago and unilaterally lower the rates 
mostly foreign-owned utilities can charge for public services 
like water and gas.

  "He's not just steering the economy into disaster, but he's 
breaking fundamental concepts like right to savings and the rule 
of law," says Abel Viglione, senior economist at local think 
tank Fiel. "No matter what economic policy is in place, that 
sort of trust takes several years, if not an entire generation, 
to rebuild."

  But the stiffest opposition may yet come from the Argentines 
themselves. Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive 
austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000 
per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer 
the stability of the current economic model - despite its many 
shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy.

  Surveys show that more than 70 percent of the public opposes any 
changes to convertibility, as the currency regime is known.

  "Those who want to devalue are shameless," says Maria Estevez, a 
schoolteacher who earns $600 a month. "They want to hold us 
hostage and force us to buy goods that can be bought cheaper and 
better quality imported."

  Instead of blaming globalization, most Argentines point to 
corrupt politicians and indifferent institutions for 
precipitating the current crisis.

  For such an ambitious economic program to work requires a strong 
leader with popular support to implement it. But that's exactly 
what Duhalde most lacks. Although he's so far successfully 
rallied the country's political class behind him, Duhalde, a 
former vice president to Menem and two-time governor of Buenos 
Aires province, has been dogged by allegations of corruption 
throughout his career. His reputation as an old-style party boss 
was behind his defeat at the polls in 1999, when he posted the 
worst showing ever by a Peronist presidential candidate.


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights reserved.

