	
US envoy retired General Anthony Zinni is to arrive in the region under circumstances similar to those that surrounded his first visit to Palestine and Israel. The Israeli Government works to abort his mission in advance by storming Palestinian territories, assassinating citizens it alleges have links to security activities, and arresting innocent citizens. The only change is that the Israeli authorities have denied any link between a number of Palestinian martyrs and prisoners on one hand and the armed organizations on the other, saying they were mere unarmed citizens, who were accidentally present near regular Israeli targets. 
	
	
 Palestinians, during Zinni's presence in the region, abided by calm and cease-fire and are doing the same now. Meanwhile, Israel provokes Palestinians to draw vindictive reactions in order to win the world community's sympathy, particularly that of the United States, using the international anti-terror war and branding as terrorism any legitimate Palestinian conduct to get rid of occupation and settlements. For that purpose, Israel likens such reactions to what occured in the United States on 11 September. The world community, however, believes that in their struggle for liberation and independence, Palestinians seek negotiations for a peaceful settlement as a strategic option and a legitimate rejection of Israel's colonialism, imposed on the Palestinian people by force for more than 34 years now. 
	
	
 Israel's provocation is too harsh to be tolerated. The Israeli Government says it should have a free hand to storm the Palestinian areas; assassinate or arrest Palestinian citizens; demolish homes, headquarters, and establishments; uproot thousands of trees; and besiege cities and villages as it likes. While committing themselves to peace, Palestinians bear this patiently and suppress fury, hoping that the US-dominated world community will acknowledge that Palestinians seek calm and a just peace in order to end occupation and settlement in their territories and to enjoy freedom, dignity, and independence, like other world nations. 
	
	
 Past weeks' Incidents, President Arafat's cease-fire declaration, the anti-violence campaign, the other activities that Israel brands terrorism, and Israel's unjustified escalation show that Palestinians are totally committed to the peace process and the previous agreements and understandings. This is because the Palestinians have the goal of peace in mind, while the Israeli Government does its utmost to hamper the peace process, entrench occupation, and step up settlement building. US envoy Zinni is supposed to have realized these clear-cut facts through his reading of the latest developments in the region. 
	
	
	


