 DUBAI : Iran pins hope on Petronas deal to ease isolation .
Iran pins hope on Petronas deal to ease isolation .
Michael Georgy
DUBAI 1996-08-20
Tehran is banking on Malaysia's Petronas acquisition of a 30 percent stake in a project to develop two oil and gas fields in Iran to deflect intense U.S. efforts to isolate the Islamic republic .
"_ This shows that unilateral moves can_ not isolate the Iranian oil industry .
It also indicates that the U.S. position is not shared by foreign oil companies , _" an Iranian oil official told Reuters by telephone from Tehran on Tuesday .
The official predicted the deal "_ will have a positive impact _" on other foreign companies seeking business in Iran's lucrative oil and gas industries .
"_ The deal indicates that the U.S. can_ not dictate its own will . _"
But the key question now is whether other companies will follow suit in the face of tough new U.S. moves to penalise non-American firms that invest in energy projects in Iran and Libya , analysts and diplomats said .
"_ Iran is trying everything possible to break the sanctions and the isolation , _" said an oil industry executive in the Gulf .
"_ But the Americans are_ n't joking and other companies like ours are likely to remain cautious .
Iran is a risky market . _"
French oil group Total SA on Monday said Malaysia's state-owned energy company Petronas had taken a 30 percent stake in the Sirri A and E fields through its Carigali subsidiary in a deal approved by the Iranian authorities .
The announcement , ending a search of more than a year for partners in the $600 million project , came two weeks after U.S. President Bill Clinton signed a bill which would penalise foreign firms which invest $40 million or more annually in Iran's or Libya's energy sectors .
The Iranian official said Petronas sealed the deal before the new U.S. sanctions were made law .
But the official and Gulf oil analysts predicted the news would still anger Washington .
"_ This is outright defiance .
It will be seen by Washington as open defiance of Clinton's bill , _" said one analyst .
"_ At the same time , companies will be taking a risk if they invest in Iran . _"
But a British diplomat underlined the rift between the United States and its European allies who were outraged at the U.S. sanctions .
"_ We will be perfectly content to trade with Iran .
We do_ n't have a problem with that .
There are opportunites in Iran and European companies will follow their governments _' leads , _" the Gulf-based diplomat said . "_ Other companies are likely to follow Petronas's lead . _"
Total , which has always said its dealings with both Iran and Libya were within French and international law , said earlier this month that the U.S. sanctions would not apply to Sirri .
The Sirri deal , Iran's largest with a foreign firm since its 1979 revolution , attracted fierce opposition from Washington which accuses Tehran of backing "_ international terrorism _" .
Iran denies the charges .
DuPont Co unit Conoco Inc had to dissolve an earlier deal with Iran for the development of the two Sirri fields after pressure from the White House .
Iran said the new sanctions were doomed to fail because they lacked support from European states which have refused to adopt the U.S. hardline stand on Tehran .
Total signed a contract on July 13 , 1995 with the National Iranian Oil Company covering all phases of the development of the two fields , including studies , delineation , development and production start-up .
