 USA : SOCCER-UNITED STOPS GALAXY IN MLS OPENER FOR BOTH TEAMS .
	
     SOCCER-UNITED STOPS GALAXY IN MLS OPENER FOR BOTH TEAMS .
     PASADENA , California 1997-03-30
     Defending champion D.C. United picked up where it left off , recording a 1-0 victory over the Los Angeles Galaxy in a rematch of last year's Major League Soccer championship game in the season opener for both teams on Saturday .
     Goalkeeper Scott Garlick made five saves in a scoreless regulation and another two in the shootout , which was won by United , 3-2 .
     John Maessner converted the winning goal in the tie-breaker after teammates Kris Kelderman and Bolivian Marco Etcheverry scored off theirs .
     Last year United rallied from a two-goal deficit in the second half to defeat the Galaxy in overtime , 3-2 , in the league's first championship game .
     The game attracted a crowd of 53,147 to the Rose Bowl , which dwarfed the attendance at the four other matches , which drew a combined 50,985 , in the first full weekend of action .
     Last week's league opener in San Jose , California , had a crowd of 23,501 .
     Attendance was down by 35 percent from last year's six opening games .
     The Tampa Bay Mutiny , United's prime rival in the Eastern Conference , won on a dramatic note , as Italian Giuseppe Galderisi scored his second goal of the game with 37 seconds remaining for a 2-1 victory over the New York/New Jersey MetroStars before 15,239 in Tampa Bay , Fla .
     After Galderisi tallied in the third minute , U.S. international Mike Sorber equalised in the 33rd minute .
     The Kansas City Wizards , who changed their name from the Wiz during the off-season , overcame a pair of second-half goals by U.S. international striker Eric Wynalda to register a 3-2 shootout win over the San Jose Clash in front of 10,198 fans in Kansas City , Mo .
     The Clash had opened the MLS season last week with a 1-0 shootout win over the MetroStars .
     Former Scottish international Mo Johnson scored the first goal of the MSL season in the 13th minute before Wynalda countered five minutes into the second half .
     Preki gave Kansas City a 2-1 advantage in the 53rd minute , but Wynalda converted a penalty kick 12 minutes later .
     The debut of New England Revolution coach Thomas Rongen was successful as his team prevailed in a 1-0 win over the Dallas Burn before a crowd of 11,063 in Dallas , Texas .
Rongen , the MLS Coach of the Year who directed Tampa Bay to the best record in the league ( 20-12 ) last season , watched his new team win on an own goal by Dallas defender Eric Dade in the 38th minute .
     Former Italian international goalkeeper Walter Zenga saved Jason Kreis' free kick in the 81st minute to preserve a shutout in his MLS debut .
     In another game decided by a shootout , the Columbus Crew edged the Colorado Rapids , 2-1 , in front of 14,485 in Columbus , Ohio .
     Mike Clark converted the game-winner as Columbus won the tie-breaker , 3-2 .
     Former U.S .
	

S22     National Team defender Steve Trittschuh had given Colorado a 1-0 advantage in the 39th minute , but Pete Marino tied it with 11 minutes remaining .
	
	

