USA : First-quarter mergers set record at $183 billion .
	

    First-quarter mergers set record at $183 billion .
	

    Robin Sidel
	

    NEW YORK 1997-03-31
	

    The U.S. corporate merger boom roared ahead in the first three months of 1997 , racking up a record $183 billion worth of transactions .
	

    The deals were distributed over a wide range of industries , but companies generally did not diversify outside their core businesses .
	

    "_ In terms of major mergers , there_ 's more than ever a feeling of sticking to the type of activity you_ 're in .
	

    And it_ 's a great time to sell a business because the values are high , _" said Bruce Nolop , managing director at investment banking boutique Wasserstein Perella & Co .
	

    The record $183 billion in total transactions announced in the first quarter eclipsed the previous first-quarter record of $120.6 billion set in 1995 , according_to Newark , N.J.-based Securities Data Co. , which tracks merger activity .
	

    The banking industry , which had settled down after a frenzy of activity in 1995 and early 1996 , came charging back in early 1997 with $16.5 billion in announced transactions .
	

    "_ You_ 're likely to see quite a_few more of these mega-transactions as banks seek to establish themselves as one of the four or five regional survivors that we_ 're all expecting to see by the beginning of the next century , _" said Oliver Sarkozy , director in the financial institutions merger and acquisition department of CS First Boston Corp .
	

    The quarter's largest transaction was the announced $10.6 billion merger between Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and Dean Witter , Discover & Co. , a deal that is expected to have a ripple effect through the U.S. securities industry .
	

    Other top deals included Raytheon Co.'s planned $9.5 billion acquisition of Hughes Electronics Corp. , a division of General Motors Corp .
	

    The strong activity seen in early 1997 marks a continuation of a trend that began in 1995 .
	

    Companies around the world are participating in the merger boom , which has been fueled by strong stock markets and a need for consolidation .
	

    Computer networking took its share of the spotlight with a $6.6 billion transaction between 3Com Corp. and U.S. Robotics Corp. , and Sunday's $3.7 billion deal between Ascend Communications Inc. and Cascade Communications Corp .
	

    Other big deals of the first quarter were CVS Corp.'s planned $2.8 billion acquisition of Revco D.S. Inc .
	

    A five-month battle for control of Conrail Inc. appeared to end when friendly bidder CSX Corp. raised its offer to $10.3 billion and agreed to negotiate a division of Conrail's assets with hostile suitor Norfolk Southern Corp .
	

    Hostile bidders unleashed a series of attacks in the first quarter , several of which are still pending .
	

    They include a $6.5 billion bid for ITT Corp. from Hilton Hotels Corp. and Invacare Corp.'s $166 million unsolicited offer for Healthdyne Technologies Corp. Applied Magnetics Corp. launched a $1.76 billion hostile offer for Read-Rite but withdrew its bid a_few weeks later .
	

    Meanwhile , an unsolicited offer by H.F. Ahmanson and Co. drove target Great Western Financial Corp. into the arms of Washington Mutual Savings Bank Electronic security giant ADT Ltd. , which was the target of Western Resources Inc. , announced a plan to merge with Tyco International in a $5.6 billion deal .
	

    Despite the rush of first quarter deals and the seemingly endless merger talk in corporate boardrooms , some Wall Street veterans say the cycle is likely to turn downward soon .
	

    "_ My sense is that sometime in mid-year the pace is going to slow down a lot , _" said Robert Kindler of law firm Cravath , Swaine & Moore , which represents top companies involved in mergers .
	

    Several deals collapsed in the first quarter , including Sierra Health Services Inc.'s purchase of Physician Corp. of America .
	

    Meanwhile , St Jude Medical Inc. and Ventritex Inc. revised downward the value of their planned transaction to $365 million from $505 million due_to concerns about Ventritex products .
