
Bush's Policy on Argentina Signals Shift in Approach

 



  


WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 - Seven years ago this month, President Bill 
Clinton's economic advisers told him Mexico was hours away from 
economic default and perhaps chaos on the streets. Mr. Clinton 
ordered an unpopular multibillion-dollar bailout, over the 
objections of Congress, but with the support of a prominent 
Republican governor, George W. Bush of Texas.

  When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent 
weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and 
his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its 
own economic mismanagement. His aides argue that the 
circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to 
make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not 
heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to 
financial disaster.

  Still, Mr. Bush's reaction to the biggest international economic 
crisis so far in his presidency is a telling example of a new - 
and perhaps risky - approach to the kind of national economic 
bankruptcies that dominated Washington's dealings with the 
world's emerging markets in the late 1990's.

  The Clinton administration, fearing "economic contagion," was 
willing to back loans to teetering governments in Thailand, 
Indonesia, South Korea and Russia. But Mr. Bush's aides have 
adopted a policy some call "tough love," meant to reverse the 
expectation in capitals around the world that if you are big 
enough, or strategically important, Washington will always find 
a way to prevent fiscal and political collapse.

  Mr. Bush promised just such a policy during his presidential 
campaign. But the first time his approach was tested, when 
Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national 
security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a 
well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the 
medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed. Washington 
joined in the bailout.

  "It's fair to say," one senior administration official noted 
during the last week, "that while we have been clear, we haven't 
always been consistent."

  The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials 
say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush 
administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial 
firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout. It 
is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week 
that they hoped would force officials of developing countries 
and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying 
as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary 
Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.

  "It is a different approach, but we needed a different 
approach," said John B. Taylor, undersecretary of the Treasury 
for international affairs. "We want to follow a policy that does 
not bail out bondholders and improves the market over all."

  
There are other new aspects to the Bush policy.

  Treasury officials in the Clinton era never shied away from 
dispensing a steady stream of advice to countries on the 
condition that they would have to meet to get Western aid. In 
contrast, during the Argentina crisis, Treasury Secretary Paul 
H. O'Neill was nearly invisible, rarely commenting on the 
country's approaching default, or the violent protests that led 
to the resignation of President Fernando de la R?  Officials say Mr. O'Neill supported the decision by the I.M.F. 
to cut off Argentina's loans because it had failed to meet the 
fund's demands for fiscal restraint. And now Washington's 
message to Argentina's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, is 
straightforward: Come up with a workable plan, and then we will 
talk.

  "President Bush never talked about specific steps he expected 
the Argentine government to take," said one White House official 
familiar with Mr. Bush's periodic calls and letters to Mr. de la 
R?d the series of his successors in recent weeks. "You won't 
find this administration having those kinds of conversations. 
Argentina has to come up with what works for them, and if we can 
support it, we will."

  Mr. Bush's approach carries considerable risk. There is every 
possibility that Argentina's new government will abandon the 
free-market leanings, tight fiscal and banking controls the 
country embraced with strong International Monetary Fund support 
over the last decade. Already there is considerable doubt that 
Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade 
agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side, 
said last year was a major goal of his administration.

  Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest 
shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying 
new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the 
country. The last emergency loan was put together in August, 
with Mr. O'Neill's close supervision.

  The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue 
that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for 
abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment. And some argue that 
both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted 
sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend 
a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar.

  But administration and I.M.F. officials respond that they aided 
Argentina for as long as they thought there was a reasonable 
chance that its political leaders were serious about reform. 
They pulled the plug, one senior administration official said, 
"only when it became clear that the collapse was going to happen 
sooner or later, and there was no use spending billions to get a 
few more weeks before the inevitable happened."

  Some longtime critics of the fund applauded the Bush 
administration's stance. Both left-wing anti-globalization 
activists and some conservative economists have argued that the 
fund became too interventionist during the Clinton years. That 
allowed investors to make reckless bets on the assumption that 
lending agencies would rescue them when things went wrong.

  "I am hopeful that we're in transition to a world in which 
countries and lenders learn more about risk," said Allan H. 
Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, who headed a 
Congressional panel two years ago that advocated sweeping 
changes at the I.M.F. and the World Bank. "You can't just keep 
throwing money at these problems and hope they will go away."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

