ALBANIA : Albanian rebels add Italy to enemies' list .
	

    Albanian rebels add Italy to enemies' list .
	

    Stephen Weeks
	

    VLORE , Albania 1997-03-31
	

    Albanian rebels holding this Adriatic port added Rome to their list of enemies on Monday after a crowded refugee boat intercepted by the Italian navy sank last week .
     Comments: this sentence relies on the previous line (place and date at the top of the article, below the headline) for the referent for "this Adriatic port" - is this included automatically like the headline or not? if not, problematic.
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for "the dead". Also "the deaths", "the boat sinking", "the rebel council". Explains what Italy must "accept responsibility" for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for "the dead". Also "the deaths", "the boat sinking", "the rebel council". Explains what Italy must "accept responsibility" for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for "the dead". Also "the deaths", "the boat sinking", "the rebel council". Explains what Italy must "accept responsibility" for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for "the dead". Also "the deaths", "the boat sinking", "the rebel council". Explains what Italy must "accept responsibility" for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for "the dead". Also "the deaths", "the boat sinking", "the rebel council". Explains what Italy must "accept responsibility" for. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.]
	

    The sudden rush of hatred toward Rome comes just ahead_of the planned deployment of an Italian-led multinational security force in Albania to protect humanitarian relief supplies .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "the multinational security force".]
	

    "_ We want no Italians in this town .
     Comments: this in turn has to be included, as it provides the referent for "he" in the next sentence (again, not important, but provides the referent for another important sentence
     Link: [Comments: provides referent for "he"]
	

    We lost our families , _" said Gjergji Greni , 34 .
     Comments: this in turn has to be included, as it provides the referent for "he" in the next sentence (again, not important, but provides the referent for another important sentence
     Link: [Comments: provides referent for "he"]
	

    "_ If we see Italian soldiers in Vlore now , we_ 'll all go crazy .
	

    We have a common blood here . _"
	

    He was speaking at a rally by some 4,000 people to mourn the dead $-- more than 80 according_to Albania $-- in the boat sinking on Friday .
     Comments: this has to be included as it provides the referent for "the rally" in a later marked sentence, even though it is not important itself.
     Link: [Comments: provides referent for "the rally".]
	

    Residents also fired thousands of rounds from an array of looted army weapons and threw flowers into the sea to honour the dead .
	

    A stolen Albanian patrol boat was packed with more than 100 refugees when it collided with the Italian ship and sank .
	

    The Italian navy was enforcing its orders to turn back refugees fleeing from Albania .
	

    The dead included many women and children from Vlore .
	

    Thirty-four people were rescued .
	

    Residents and the rebel council , which has defied President Sali Berisha for almost two months , hold Rome responsible for the deaths because_of its policy of forcing back refugees .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Berisha".]
	

    "_ As a military man , I can tell you that it would be a big mistake to deploy Italians in this town .
	

    No one would receive them with flowers , _" said Simon Malushi , a former army officer .
	

    "_ We do_ n't want to kill anyone but the situation here is out_of control and people are crazy with anger at the Italians over what happened , _" he said .
	

    Council leader Albert Shyti told the rally Italy must admit responsibility , punish the guilty and compensate families of victims and "_ only then will Italians be accepted in our town _" .
	

    Italy has blamed the accident on erratic manoeuvres by the Albanian captain but no one in Vlore seems to question who was responsible .
	

    "_ There is no doubt the refugee ship was sunk intentionally .
	

    It was a deal between Berisha and Italy to use all means to stop the Albanian exodus , even sinking ships , _" said Dilaver Alia , a member of Vlore council .
	

    Since the start of the rebellion in February , Berisha has been public enemy number one in Vlore , where Albania declared independence from Turkish Ottoman rule in 1912 .
	

    Now Rome has been added to the list .
	

    The region remains defiantly outside of government control and the port has been closed , except to illegal refugee boats , since the insurrection began .
	

    Food and medicine are running low .
	

    No one has been paid or received pensions in three months .
	

    There is no work and nothing to do but play bingo or flee the lawless country to Italy .
	

    More than 13,000 Albanians have fled to Italy this month and men at Monday's rally said despite the boat sinking they had no choice but to pay $500 to travel illegally to Italy .
	

    "_ We have nothing .
	

    No work , no money , no pension and no choice but to head for Italy or Greece , _" said Kristi Vero , 50 .
	

    Both Italy and Greece , Albania's southern neighbour , fear the turmoil in the country could trigger a mass exodus similar to 1991 and 1992 following the collapse of 45 years of ruthless Stalinist rule .
	

    Rome has pushed hard for the multinational security force $-- including France , Greece and Romania among others .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "it" and "the force".]
	

    It won U.N. backing last week and plans to deploy the force soon .
	

    Italy and Greece hope the force will help stabilise Albania ahead_of early June elections which , hopefully , will lead to a political solution to the crisis .
	

    But now Rome and Berisha have become intertwined as two similar evils in Vlore minds .
	

    "_ Let Berisha keep the Italian assistance .
	

    We do_ n't want Italian sugar .
	

    It is_ n't sweet anymore , _" said Malushi .
