	
The great leader [yongdoja] Comrade Kim Chong-il has pointed out the following: 
	
	
 "We should conduct proper research work to protect the environment, such as the air and water, in order to maintain people's health and provide them with more hygienic and civilized living conditions." 
	
	
 At the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change held recently in Morocco, Japan laid artificial obstacles to the session by seeking its own profit. In discussing the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor. It grudgingly agreed to it only when some countries made concessions and made amendments to the draft. 
	
	
 Japan calculated that it would suffer a tremendous loss, if the draft regulations were ever passed intact and would be adopted as a legal document. 
	
	
 The session of the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change held this time was to reach on an actual agreement regarding regulatory problems that have to be solved to put the "Kyoto Protocol" adopted in 1997 into force, so that the world may reduce the greenhouse effect and ecological damage, which are becoming more serious with each passing day, protect human lives and health, and provide favorable conditions for the promotion of human civilization. 
	
	
 As is feared by the whole world, preservation of the environment is becoming an awfully grave and pressing problem that is linked to the existence of mankind. How the problems of the global warming and environmental preservation are handled today will have a major impact on the lives and health of people as well as the future development of the world. This is the reason why many people of the world today are demanding that the world take concrete measures for protecting the environment, as they have come to realize its importance. However, as was revealed this time, Japan, which was in a position to take the lead to solve the environmental problems, attempted to back away from solving the problems. 
	
	
 It is a well-known fact that the "Kyoto Protocol" was adopted at the Fifth Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Japan in 1997. According the "Kyoto Protocol," developed countries are supposed to set goals to reduce greenhouse gases emission and officially put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force by the year 2002. For the "Kyoto Protocol" to enter into force, 55 countries have to ratify it. 
	
	
 At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol" as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere. It was expected that the protocol would be ratified by the countries that signed it and would have a legal binding force. 
	
	
 Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the "Kyoto Protocol," Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was "produced by the role" Japan had played. Japan even called for working out practical measures to have it enter into force. Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force and even called for liquidation of the draft. This shows how capricious Japan is and how frequently it changes its stand when the stakes matter the most. Of course, behind the Japan's behavior lies its stakes. 
	
	
 According to the "Kyoto Protocol," by 2008 - 2012 Japan is supposed to reduce its greenhouse gas emission by six percent from the 1990 level. If Japan is to achieve this goal, it will have to put a lot of effort. It has to restructure the plants and enterprises, introduce new technology, and upgrade production lines. To do all these things, it needs a tremendous amount of money for investment. Never doing anything unprofitable is the nature of Japan. Accordingly, Japan would never readily agree on putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force. In the course of calculating the gains and losses of the "Kyoto Protocol" and trying to figure out what it should do, Japan found a good excuse. The United States, which has to do the most to implement the "Kyoto Protocol," has come out opposing the draft regulations. 
	
	
 On the pretext of the US opposition, Japan was attempting to realize its own objective. In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the "Kyoto Protocol." That was a hint that it would not be good for Japan to play a leading role in dealing with a matter detrimental to US interests. 
	
	
 Since Japan has no spirit of independence and has always acted on US directions, Japan had continued to put off Diet ratification of the protocol and took such an attitude at the UN session held this time, under the plausible pretext that it would be meaningless to put the "Kyoto Protocol" into force, if the United States were excluded. 
	
	
 What Japan is doing with respect to the issue of putting the "Kyoto Protocol" into force is tantamount to an act of betrayal against mankind in the effort to protect human lives, health, and the earth's atmosphere. 
	
	
 At present, the global warming is a most serious issue, whose gravity is second only to that of a nuclear war. Here, Japan and other developed countries have to assume especially large responsibilities. Nonetheless, Japan is backing away from resolving the issue, although it is in a position to play a leading role. Japan should be condemned by the world for that. 
	
	
 Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation. 
	
	
	


