	
The profound economic crisis in Argentina has coincided with a wave of social tension during recent days. Riots and widespread strikes, attacks on government buildings, and the plundering of stores have left scores of dead and casualties. Public dissatisfaction and an increase in the people's anger in this country have finally resulted in the collapse of Fernando Delaroe's government following several days of protest. 
	
	
 Because of the misguided policies of Argentina's politicians, Argentina is in a state of stagnation for a fourth consecutive years. The unemployment rate has passed 18 percent and the hard currency is continuously being devalued. Foreign debts are around $132 billion and poverty is dominating the country like a dangerous virus. 
	
	
 The important point is that Argentina has enjoyed the IMF's advice in the execution of these policies. The main problem that caused the recent shock is also a result of the restrictive economic policies that have been adopted on the advice of IMF experts. Incidentally, the riots also occurred following the IMF's announcement of Argentina's debts. 
	
	
 What is clear is that Argentina's paralyzed economy was unable to tolerate the government's hardline policies, which finally resulted in the situation that we are witnessing today. Although IMF officials deny any connection their policies and the current situation, reports indicate that now an IMF executive delegation is actively making changes to Argentina's economy. Another important point is Argentina's connections with the global economy. This country has attracted a large amount of foreign investment by international companies, from the American continent to Europe. Some $76 billion of the $132 billion debt is accounted for by foreign loans, which were lavished on Argentina. Anyway, now in addition to the IMF, the US government, as the biggest investor in Argentina's economy, is ignoring its commitments in the current situation. 
	
	
 In the heat of crisis, the interim government has introduced new initiatives. Among them are halting the payment of debts and the execution of supportive actions for the poor people, controlling government and state expenses, attempts to increase employment, giving food help and trying to take out new loans, and the adoption of new monetary policies. However, there are a few ambiguous points, such as: 
	
	
 1 -- What amount of Argentina's economic crisis is due to its relations with the global economy and how much effect will it have on the European and US economies due to its present stagnation? 
	
	
 2 -- What reaction is likely from other countries and international institutions to the government's new policies, for instance halting the payment of debts? 
	
	
 3 -- Finally, what fate awaits Argentina's crisis-stricken economy? 
	
	
	


