    USA : US CREDIT OUTLOOK $- March NAPM focus of mkt concern .
	

    US CREDIT OUTLOOK $- March NAPM focus of mkt concern .
	

    John P. Hughes
	

    NEW YORK 1996-04-01
	

    Nervous bond market participants on Tuesday morning await the release of the first of two critical reports on the U.S. economy for this week .
	

    The National Association of Purchasing Management's March survey was scheduled for release at 1000 EST/1500 GMT Tuesday .
     Link: [Comments: s2's "NAPM" is explained in s1.]
	

    Economists surveyed by Reuters , on average , expected a reading of 53.6 , up from 53.1 in February .
	

    Such a reading would confirm that the manufacturing sector of the economy remained robust and heighten fears of continued strong U.S. economic growth .
	

    Market reaction to NAPM may be somewhat tempered by the more-watched nonfarm payrolls report looming on Friday .
	

    The Federal Reserve , when tightening last week , said it will respond in kind to strong economic growth going forward .
     Link: [Comments: "that" in s2 refers back to the whole of s1, so must include s1 if we want to include s2.]
	

    That fueled speculation the Fed may be entering another tightening cycle and not just notching interest rates higher one time .
	

    Fed chairman Alan Greenspan has said that he regards the NAPM as a leading rather_than lagging indicator of economic growth , thus attaching much importance to the figure .
	

    That may add to fear the Fed will vote to tighten again at its May 20 meeting should the figure come in strong .
	

    "_ The Chicago ( purchasing managers report ) make us think we may see a 54 reading overall , but the interesting thing may be the supplier/deliveries ( component ) , _" said James Glassman , senior economist at Chase Securities Inc .
	

    The Chicago report showed there may be somewhat of a bottleneck in that unit of the survey , which could be a leading indicator of inflation pressures , he said .
	

    With strong demand and low inventories it would be logical to expect a rebound in the manufacturing sector , Glassman said .
	

    Given that , the market likely would able to withstand a strong NAPM report , he said .
	

    Glassman said the market also may remain stable due_to the lrage amount of news to be digested between now and the next meeting of the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) .
	

    "_ The market knows this ( manufacturing ) rebound is strong .
	

    Unless there_ 's some disaster about building inflation _" a strong NAPM could be shrugged off , he said .
	

    On Friday nonfarm payrolls will be reported .
	

    Economists polled by Reuters are forecasting , on average , 182,000 new nonfarm jobs were created in March , compared to 339,000 in February .
	

    "_ I would guess the market has already priced in a small increase in NAPM .
	

    We_ 're looking for a 54 , _" said John Ryding , senior economist at Bear Stearns & Co .
	

    Ryding said the market also had probably priced in at_least two more tightening moves over the next four to five months by the Fed .
     Comments: need referent for "the Fed", but sentence which explains it is already linked to something else, so can't.
	

    "_ I would guess people will wait until Friday to see the employment report .
	

    We already know the ( manufacturing ) numbers are strong , the risk lies in softer numbers $-- that_ 's where we could see a rally , _" Ryding said .
	

    Tuesday also will see the release of BTM/Schroders retail sales report at 0900 EST/1400 GMT as_well_as leading economic indicators and construction spending at 1000 EST/1500 GMT .
	

    Late Monday the 30-year Treasury bond was trading at 94-05/32 to yield 7.10 percent .
	

    The 10-year was at 95-11/32 to yield 6.91 percent .
	

    The five-year was at 99-15/32 to yield 6.75 percent and the two-year was at 99-22/32 to yield 6.42 percent .
	

    Three-month bills were at 5.18 percent ; six-month bills at 5.32 percent and year bills at 5.67 percent .
	

    ( ( N .
	

    A. Treasury Desk , 212-859-1663 ) )
