USA : INSIGHT $- Dow tests critical support at 6600 .
	

    INSIGHT $- Dow tests critical support at 6600 .
	

    Richard Jacobsen
	

    NEW YORK 1997-03-31
	

    The Dow Jones Industrial Average was testing critical technical support at the 6600 level on Monday during a second session of steep losses .
     Comments: although this repeats the title, i think it also provides additional essential information - that of the losses.
	

    The 6600 level "_ is very important and if it should happen to break that would mean 6300 , _" said Robert Dickey , technical analyst at Dain Bosworth .
     Comments: speech, but important.
	

    The Dow was off 105 points , or 1.5 percent , at 6637 in late morning trading on Monday .
	

    Earlier in the session the index hit 6599 before paring its losses .
	

    The Dow fell 140 points on Thursday in a selloff triggered by the move by the 30-year Treasury bond yield over the seven percent level .
	

    U.S. financial markets were closed Friday .
	

    The seven-percent yield on the long bond is seen as drawing investors away from stocks into bonds .
	

    Analysts said that a move by the long bond yield through the 7.2 percent level would mean an even more serious psycholgical and technical breakdown for stocks .
	

    The long bond was down 1/32 to yield 7.09 percent on Monday .
	

    Techical analysts said the Dow support around the 6600 level was built by Dow highs in November and December and its January low .
	

    Ricky Harrington , technical analyst analyst , Interstate/Johnson Lane , pointed to 6400 as the next key support after 6600 .
	

    He said he did not expect any broad rallies off the support levels .
	

    "_ I would only look for a technical rebound , not much of a rally , from any one of these supports , _" Harrington said . "_ I think the market has broken down and I think you_ 're going to see continued and increased volatility . _"
	

    Technical analysts said the put/call ratio has been relatively low in recent sessions , a sign that there was not sufficient bearish sentiment to provide support for stocks .
	

    A higher ratio would indicate investors are buying put options , which allow them to sell stocks at a specified price .
	

    Technical analysts view higher bearish sentiment as a contrary indicator and a positive for stocks .
	

    "_ I_ 'm pretty nervous the way people are so complacent about this pullback , _" Dickey said .
	

    However , Frank Gretz , technical analyst at Shields & Co , said the put/call ratio had picked up Monday morning .
	

    European investors returning Tuesday from the long Easter weekend holiday could add to the selling , leading to a "_ washout _" in U.S. stocks that would provide a near-term bottom , he said .
	

    "_ It all suggest we could be close to a low here , at_least temporarily , _" Gretz said .
	

    ( ( $-- Wall St Desk , 212-859-1721 ) )
