
   Africa's Grand Bargain

 



 

 
All was not lost in Zimbabwe's rigged election last week.

  Africa's two richest and most powerful nations, South Africa and 
Nigeria, decided to punish Zimbabwe on Tuesday for a flawed 
presidential vote. Their courageous stand will help renew a 
promise by leading industrialized nations to provide more aid, 
trade, and investment only if Africa shows better governance and 
democracy.

  This grand bargain to uplift the world's poorest continent would 
have been in jeopardy if Thabo Mbeki, south Africa's president, 
and Olusegun Obasanjo, Nigeria's president, had not agreed to 
suspend Zimbabwe from the 54-nation group of former British 
colonies known as the Commonwealth. Their endorsement of yet 
another type of diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe shows 
solidarity with the West.

  The grand pact, known as the New Partnership for Africa's 
Development, was initiated by the two leaders. It is a model for 
all poverty-reducing efforts at this week's UN conference on 
development aid being held in Mexico (see opinion piece). 
Without the rule of law and fair elections in Africa, no amount 
of aid can help it.

  Mr. Mbeki may still hope that, despite his joining the West in 
criticizing Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, he can work with 
his troubled neighbor to prevent more violence, keep the economy 
from collapsing, and find some political compromise.

  Mbeki and other African leaders need to press Mr. Mugabe to stop 
his repression and to not take farmland from whites without just 
compensation. Many of the continent's other governments found 
little fault with the way Mugabe ran the election, despite 
overwhelming evidence of voter intimidation and manipulation of 
polls.

  Zimbabwe's opposition says it will only join Mugabe in a unity 
government if he agrees to a new, better-run election. That's a 
fair deal. A strike this week by the country's trade unions 
protesting the government's tactics reflects widespread disgust 
with Mugabe.

  But now that he's cornered by the international community with 
many types of isolation - including opprobrium from two of his 
African peers - he has lashed out by charging opposition leader 
Morgan Tsvangirai with trying to kill him. Such desperation by 
Mugabe should not be condoned by African leaders.

  South Africa's leader, Mbeki, who has been inclined toward 
"quiet diplomacy" with Zimbabwe, has now made himself heard. His 
stature in Africa and his stand on Zimbabwe's future bring hope 
for African economic renewal and greater democracy.

  
back to top

  
Untitled


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.

