
   Not 'gonna be a long, long time' till you can be a rocket man

 






  The International Space Station is not exactly the 
Waldorf-Astoria. And a Russian Soyuz capsule will never boast 
the creature comforts of a stretch limo.

  But that doesn't bother an increasing number of well-heeled 
executives and celebrities willing to pay millions of dollars 
and spend a few months training in exchange for a quick trip to 
orbit.

  Welcome to the dawn of space tourism, where opportunities to 
view spaceship Earth from aboveare rare, visions of the future 
are grand, and Everyman seems willing to shed planet Earth, if 
briefly. The latest "tour-o-naut" to buckle up and place his 
tray table in the upright, locked position is South African 
venture capitalist Mark Shuttleworth. He launched with two 
cosmonauts on a space-station resupply flight yesterday from the 
Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. He is the second fare-paying 
visitor to the station, following in the bootsteps of Dennis 
Tito, a US businessman who took that same trip last year.

  They aren't alone. "Another eight to 10 people have expressed 
interest" in a Soyuz trip to the space station, notes Tereza 
Predescu of Space Adventures, an Arlington, Va., company that 
arranges the flights.

  
'N space?

  Russia's next resupply flight is scheduled for October, and two 
Americans are vying for the passenger seat: former National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration associate administrator 
Lori Garver and boy-band 'N Sync's Lance Bass. Aerosmith rocker 
Steven Tyler also is reportedly eyeing a future flight.

  "There is a lot of pent-up demand, at least emotionally" among a 
large number of people to journey into space, says John Logsdon, 
of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University in 
Washington, D.C.

  For example, in 2000, Harris Interactive surveyed Americans' and 
Canadians' willingness to travel into space as tourists. 
Overall, 86 percent of the 2,022 respondents would be interested 
in a trip to space. Extrapolating from the results, Space 
Adventures, which commissioned the study, estimates that 10,000 
people a year would be willing to pay $100,000 apiece for a 
quick up-and-down suborbital flight, a la Mercury astronaut Alan 
Shepard. That translates into a $1 billion-a-year business.

  If they received the trip as a promotion or gift, 80 percent of 
the respondents said they'd take an intercontinental 
space-plane, 70 percent would take a space-station tour or an 
orbital flight, and 74 percent would be willing to take a 
suborbital journey.

  For space tourism to truly take off, however, several things 
must happen, says Frank Sietzen of the Space Transportation 
Association, an aerospace-industry group in Arlington, Va.

  "You need a strong, growing US space transportation system, and 
the federal ... decision that it's in the national interest to 
fund ... a second generation reusable launch vehicle to supplant 
the shuttle at a sufficiently low cost that it would be 
commercially viable," he says. Out of that effort would come the 
rocket or rockets that would service commercial passenger 
flights.

  He likens the effort needed to one the US Air Force undertook in 
1951, when it began developing an aerial tanker to refuel jet 
fighters and bombers. The result, he continues, was the KC-135, 
known commercially as the Boeing 707, the first commercial jet 
to be used worldwide.

  The government is moving in that direction with NASA's Space 
Launch Initiative. The agency has budgeted $4.8 billion through 
2006 for the development of safer, more reliable, and cheaper 
follow-ons to the shuttle. It looking beyond the SLI to a 
program designed to develop a third-generation of launch 
vehicles.

  Others are not waiting for the government to act. Some 20 
companies and groups worldwide are in a competition for a $10 
million purse offered to the first firm that can build and fly a 
two-stage, reusable rocket that can carry three people on a 
suborbital flight and be refurbished for its next flight within 
two weeks. Yesterday, a Canadian team paraded a mockup a 
60-foot-long "Canadian Arrow" through the streets of Manhattan 
in a pitch coinciding with Mr. Shuttleworth's launch.

  Known as the X Prize, the contest is modeled after the prizes 
that stimulated growth of commercial aviation early in the last 
century, says X Prize Foundation president Peter Diamandis.

  
Modern barnstormers

  Noting that Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking trans-Atlantic 
solo flight was a response to the offer of an aviation prize, he 
adds that within six years of that flight, commercial passenger 
flights became common. He expects a similar commercial response 
after his prize is issued.

  "People paid what for them were large sums of money" to fly with 
early-20th century barnstormers "to see the world from 2,000 
feet," he says. He expects a similar response when an X Prize 
winner emerges. Indeed, Space Adventures already has payments 
from roughly 100 customers willing to fly with astronautical 
barnstormers once a winner emerges, perhaps as early as 2004 or 
2005.

  The contest already is stimulating a range of related efforts, 
ranging from states trying to set up space ports for tourism 
flights, to Federal Aviation Administration development of 
licensing requirements for private commercial launch facilities 
and passenger operations.

  Where Dr. Diamandis sees relatively short-term opportunity, 
however, others suggest a viable space-tourism industry is still 
a decade or more away. "It will happen," he says, "but not in 
the time frame that will please tourism's advocates."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.

