
America is axis of evil for the Arab world

 



 
 The American president is not really popular in the Arab world. 
George Bush has become an object for harsh criticism after his 
recent statement about the axis of evil. If Yasser Arafat is 
trying to do something to pacify the West, other Arab 
politicians and journalists are not afraid of saying something 
daring.

  The Egyptian governmental newspaper Al-Ahram wrote that Bush 
used the same language in his State of the Union speech that 
Osama bin Laden used in his video messages. The editor of the 
Al-Quds newspaper published in London Abd Al-Bari Atvan went 
further and compared George Bush with Hitler. The editor wrote 
that Bush showed in his speech that he is craving for blood and 
is ready to declare war on half of the world in order to take 
revenge. The editor believes that Bush is willing to wage war 
against Iran and Iraq, because they have weapons of mass 
destruction, but Bush does not want to notice that Israel also 
has these kinds of weapons. Atvan said that Bush's speech looked 
like one of Hitler's. The threats to Iran and Iraq were like 
Hitler's threats to Poland and Czech republic. The editor of the 
Arabic newspaper believes that one should do everything possible 
to put an end to Bush's imprudence, otherwise the war that he is 
going to have will overshadow the World Wars.

  Palestinian Alhayat Aljadeeda media outlets and the Voice of 
Palestine radio repeatedly called America the enemy of the 
Palestinian people after that "axis of evil" statement.

  North Korea said America was the "devil's empire." The official 
Korean news agency stated that Bush used "the hypothetical 
threat against North Korea as the pretext for the considerable 
increase of military spending."

  The Soviet Union was also called the "evil empire" years ago. It 
seemed that such labels would never come into the picture again. 
However, it is becoming rather fashionable now for countries to 
exchange harsh words with each other like kids.

  
Sergey Borisov


Copyright @1999 by "Pravda.RU". When reproducing our materials 
in whole or in part, reference to Pravda.RU should be made.

