
Guantanamo's Unhappy Campers


 
  GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA -- It's 5 A.M. at the Roosevelt Roads Naval 
station in Puerto Rico, and 20 journalists straggle to the gate 
in sleep-deprived silence to catch a plane to Guantanamo Bay. 
Many of us haven't been up this early in years. But after flying 
thousands of miles, then pub-crawling through the streets of Old 
San Juan last night, we are here because our military escorts 
insist we show up at this time, though the flight actually 
leaves four hours later. "The military operates on one 
principle," explains a savvy veteran: "Hurry up and wait."

  If we're not happy, that goes double for our public affairs 
babysitters. "I'm up to my ears in Vieques," says Navy Lt. Corey 
Barker, of the nearby bombing range/public relations fiasco that 
has been protested by everyone from Al Sharpton to obscure 
Kennedys. Now, Barker is stuck minding us as we light out for 
Guantanamo, the American naval station on the southeastern tip 
of Cuba. It is there that 158 al Qaeda/Taliban prisoners are 
being detained because, depending on who you ask, it is an 
ideal, sunny clime, it's not subject to the get-out-of-jail 
escape hatches of U.S. federal law, or because, as one senior 
Pentagon official says, "The lawyers didn't want to go on 
14-hour flights to some guano rock in the Pacific."

  Inside the air terminal, our baggage handlers check us in with 
the efficiency of Bulgarian DMV workers. A sign on the wall says 
"Air Terminal of the Year 2000." "I'd hate to see who got second 
place," whispers one reporter. As we wait for our flight on a 
creaky Pan Am jet, we are shunted off to the "VIP" room, so 
named because it has a coffee pot and seascape paintings that 
look pilfered from a south Florida retirement village. Here, we 
are given our media "indoctrination" packages, never an 
encouraging word if you aspire to reportorial autonomy. As we 
sit watching CNN, an unfounded rumor gains currency. Though it's 
Saturday, and we're supposed to be in Cuba until Monday, the 
military has changed plans and is going to make us leave 
Guantanamo Sunday morning. "One thing's for sure," says a wire 
reporter, "you won't have to sort through all your notes to 
decide what to lead with."

  Fearing an abbreviated schedule, I commence valuable 
newsgathering. Knowing that in some Taliban-held provinces, 
pederasty rivaled headless-goat polo (buzkashi) as the favorite 
pastime, I ask a Naval officer if there are any reports of 
Guantanamo prisoners turning to man-love. "Oh God no," he says. 
"Though there are some Air Force personnel over there, so who 
knows what's going on?"

  Another officer relays something we'll hear repeated often: that 
because of international political pressure, the prisoners are 
getting coddled. The latest report has Army guards directing 
detainees on which way to pray to Mecca. "They're actually going 
to paint arrows on the floors of the cells so they'll know to 
face north," he says. "You mean east," I say. "North, east, 
whatever," he replies, "I'm Lutheran--I don't know where the 
hell it is."

  A FEW hours later, we touch down at the Guantanamo landing strip 
on the isolated leeward side of the base (Gitmo, as it is 
nicknamed, is actually bisected by Guantanamo Bay). After 
getting sniffed by a German shepherd who's more interested in 
bombs than my colleague's Percocet, we're escorted to the media 
center, an ugly wood-paneled affair that sits next to a pink 
hangar. After another hour or two of waiting, a mouthy reporter 
loudly calls his editor so we can all hear him report the 
latest: "Same shit, different day. Though they're really 
cleaning up the media center. Curtains, an air conditioner, even 
a freakin' bulletin board!"

  The hospitality ends there. A stern sign on the bulletin board 
admonishes us to clean up after ourselves. The goodies set out 
on a table (grape beverage powder and apple jelly from 
meals-ready-to-eat packs) practically scream, "Can't wait till 
you leave." Many of us had secretly harbored the fantasy that we 
could talk our overseers into letting us go right up to the 
prisoners' cells, the terrorist equivalent of a field trip to 
the ASPCA.

  But as a gaggle of public affairs officers enter, they lay down 
two immutable laws: There will be no access to detainees (the 
Geneva Convention forbids making them a "public curiosity"). And 
we can go only where the officers take us. Running the public 
affairs show is Army Lt. Col. William Costello, a bearish 
soldier who looks like the kind of guy who enjoys breaking 
things on his face. His hard, dark orbs dart to and fro while he 
delivers a good news/bad news proposition. The good news is 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld will be visiting the 
detainees' Camp X-Ray the next morning. The bad news is that the 
unfounded rumor is founded--the Pentagon press corps is coming 
with him, and we'll be forced to leave a day early.

  Immediately, an angry media throng closes in on Costello, the 
air now containing an Altamont-like level of violence. "My 
editors are going to crush my nuts," says one reporter, probably 
female. "This is crazy," I say, "How am I supposed to get enough 
material for a piece?" "Not my problem," replies Costello. "This 
is bullshit," thunders another print reporter. "You're making us 
leave as the biggest story gets here." "You're not allowed to 
stay," says Costello. "Why not?" snaps the reporter. Costello's 
blood rises as his high-and-tight haircut stands up like an 
angry-dog scruff: "BECAUSE ... YOU'RE ... NOT ... STAYING!" 
"Welcome to the Pearl of the Antilles," deadpans Lt. Commander 
Brendan McPherson, in a limp cruise-director chirp.

  It's understandable if public affairs types are a little testy. 
There's an obvious culture clash (military personnel don't get 
paid to ask why; journalists don't get paid otherwise). Besides 
that, ever since the detainees started arriving on January 11, 
Gitmo and the joint forces being run under Southern Command have 
experienced the PR equivalent of what my ever-subtle 
colleagues--borrowing from Special Forces terminology for 
disastrous missions--call a "goat f--." In the richest irony of 
the war on terrorism, the Department of Defense, which normally 
goes out of its way not to make news, caused an international 
outcry by releasing still shots of detainees being brought to 
Camp X-Ray.

  As they were transported and in-processed, al Qaeda members were 
photographed kneeling, wearing earmuffs, shackles, and blackout 
goggles. Though these seemed perfectly reasonable precautions to 
take when transporting by C-141 members of an organization 
already responsible for one prison uprising (Mazar-i-Sharif, 
which resulted in a CIA operative's death) and several suicide 
plane crashes, human rights groups and international media, led 
by a chorus of Euro-whiners, immediately lapsed into hysterics.

  The British press, with typical understatement, claimed 
prisoners were being "brutalized, tortured, and humiliated," and 
that the whole operation was nothing more than "a sick attempt 
to appeal to the worst red-neck prejudices." Tony Blair pointed 
out that the three British al Qaeda members being held at Gitmo 
have had no complaints. But that didn't stop the Mirror's 
Stephen Moyes from method reporting by donning an al Qaeda rig. 
"Wrapped in the suffocating orange boiler suit," he wrote, "I 
lost any sense of dignity"--a loss he could have just as easily 
sustained by rereading his own copy.

  Sillier still were protestations from such humanitarians as 
Saddam Hussein and the government of Malaysia (Prime Minister 
Mahathir Mohamad has made some of the loudest noise, though 
Amnesty International dings him for arresting the speechwriter 
of a political rival, who was then blindfolded, stripped naked, 
punched, verbally abused, and forced to simulate homosexual 
acts--none of which is alleged at Camp X-Ray). About the only 
foreign leader who has supported the American detainee camp, 
ironically, is Fidel Castro, who is either angling to end the 
embargo or inching ever closer to dementia. (He declared January 
"Americans' Month" and invited Jimmy Carter for a visit.)

  All of this has made Camp X-Ray personnel a sensitive lot. On 
the ferry crossing over to the windward side where the camp is 
located, I sit next to a now mellow Lt. Col. Costello, who has 
decided to patch things up with the reporter he snapped at, and 
who, after getting the sign-off from Southern Command, has 
cleared us to stay through Rumsfeld's visit. Costello, like many 
Gitmo types, is baffled at the uproar over the prisoners' 
treatment. "Soldiers and Marines that are guarding the detainees 
at Camp X-Ray have worse conditions than the detainees," he 
says. Much has been made over their being kept in outdoor cells, 
invariably called "cages," which are topped with corrugated 
tin-covered wooden roofs that keep what little rain Gitmo gets 
(six inches a year) off the prisoners. Costello says their 
eight-by-eight cells contain about twice as much space as 
soldiers have in their crowded, unventilated tents a few hundred 
yards away.

  "They're getting warm showers, clean laundry, hot chow," 
Costello says of the prisoners. "They're getting 2,600 calories 
a day. I'm not getting 2,600 calories a day. I'm running my ass 
off chasing you guys around." (One of the medics treating 
detainees claims that a full quarter of them were suffering from 
malnutrition when they were captured.)

  But we don't have to take Costello's word for it. We can see for 
ourselves, sort of. After a quick stop at McDonald's (the only 
one in Cuba), our white school bus transports us past beautiful 
seaside vistas and brownish cactus-infested scrub, past 
ramshackle housing and up a hill, which features an abandoned 
auto yard that the locals used to call Sears. It's where they'd 
strip old junkers for parts then used on jerry-rigged jalopies 
called "Gitmo specials."

  Across from Sears is Camp X-Ray, a teeming hive of concertina 
wire, canvas tents, guard towers, and newly constructed plywood 
interrogation shacks with window-unit air conditioners. The 
chain-link cells themselves don't need air conditioning, since a 
comfortable Caribbean breeze (temperatures range from the low 
70s at night to the low 80s during the day) continuously 
circulates through the encampment.

  Restricted to an area about 150 yards away from the open-air 
cellblocks, we observe the camp from a slight elevation that 
CNN's John Zarrella calls "Heartbreak Ridge," so named "because 
if you're a journalist, it breaks your heart that you can't get 
closer." Gitmo has actually been the site of a lot of heartbreak 
over the years.

  It broke Christopher Columbus's, when he stopped here on his 
second New World voyage. He left after failing to find gold, 
threatening to cut off the tongues of his crew if they didn't 
agree to pretend they'd reached Asia. It also rankles Castro, 
who has wanted to throw us off the island for four decades, but 
can't because of a pre-Revolution lease agreement. Likewise, 
when thousands of Cuban rafters were detained here for months in 
the mid-'90s, many grew so unhappy with Gitmo's ghostly 
desolation that they'd do anything to leave, including inject 
diesel fuel into their veins, drive tent stakes into their 
limbs, even swim back to Castro's Cuba.

  By comparison, the al Qaedans look pretty fat, if not happy. 
They laze away in the shade of their cells. They sleep on 
inch-and-a-half-thick isomats, the same ones that are issued to 
our military. With the assistance of a Muslim Navy chaplain, 
they pray five times daily. (Quick studies, the al Qaedans 
didn't need arrows painted on their cell floors. A single 
signpost next to an American flag points the way to Mecca.) And 
while American prisoners in the Hanoi Hilton often spent years 
in solitary confinement and received no medical care (John 
McCain to this day can't comb his own hair), X-Ray detainees get 
daily sick calls from all manner of doctors, from optometrists 
to podiatrists. The prisoners (who represent about 25 different 
nationalities but mostly are Saudis) can also freely chat with 
each other about God knows what: prison uprisings, the demise of 
Talk magazine, trades of Froot Loops for garlic bagel chips.

  Their restroom arrangements are pretty spartan. They get a white 
bucket for emergency squirts, while they are instructed to hold 
two fingers up for the alternative. At that time, a guard 
shackles them and takes them to the port-o-loo. While the 
military has spared no expense in construction costs (in three 
weeks, they built a completely operational field hospital 
staffed by 160 medical personnel--two more than there are 
prisoners), they've saved a fortune in toilet paper. It's the 
detainees' cultural preference not to use any. "We don't shake 
their hands," says one camp guard.

  In addition to the aforementioned amenities, detainees also 
receive two towels, a Koran, a shortened toothbrush (still long 
enough to file into a shiv), a canteen, a bucket of water, 
fluoride toothpaste, and shampoo. Not just any shampoo, but 
"Lively" salon anti-dandruff shampoo--a "luxurious shampoo in a 
gentle formula that restores moisture, shine, and body to your 
beautifully clean hair." Those who think the prisoners are 
getting coddled (Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, visited 
the camp and said it's "too good for the bastards") will be 
happy to know that the shampoo is not jojoba-enriched.

  WHILE public affairs officers these days are going to great 
lengths to talk about how docile the prisoners are, detainees 
have been reported biting a guard, spitting, and threatening to 
kill Americans. When I skirt away from my minders and visit the 
Marine snipers' tent, I learn it went well beyond that.

  The snipers, of course, are the camp's deadliest sharpshooters, 
ropy young bucks (21-23 years of age) who seem largely culled 
from the western or southern United States, where firearms are 
often regarded as extra appendages. Their tent looks like a 
Marines-issued college dorm room: Skoal-juice bottles, laundry 
hanging everywhere, and a spade-like sniper insignia banner 
tacked to a tent wall. If there is a prison uprising, it is 
these gentleman who will man the guard towers and introduce the 
rioters to their 72 black-eyed virgins.

  At some point, that might become necessary, they tell me, as 
plotting is obviously afoot. Sgt. Matt Lampert of Montana says 
the other day one of the prisoners was caught "with a piece of 
cloth stuffed with rocks that was tied off at the end." Sgt. 
Rodney Davis says that during chowtime, he sees them through his 
scope "making terrain models out of their food." And unlike say, 
Afghan prisons, where starving detainees are reportedly begging 
to be sent to Gitmo, there's plenty of food to play with. "They 
get fed better than us, sir," says Lampert. When I ask the 
Marines if they've seen anything weird, they laugh sheepishly, 
looking at each other. Finally, Sgt. Josh Westbrook, who sports 
a forearm tattoo of flaming baby heads, steps up. "They know 
they're being watched," he explains, "so they'll stare at you, 
and while they stare at you, they'll, uh, masturbate."

  According to these Marines, they don't just pleasure themselves 
to freak out the snipers, but also to embarrass the female Army 
guards in the camp's interior. The weirdness doesn't end there. 
They've also eaten their toiletries and urinated on equipment. 
"The other day," says Westbrook, "one of the guys tried to do a 
naked cartwheel." In the most bizarre twist, Lance Corporal 
Devin Klebaur says a few have also been known to "put toothpaste 
in their ass." "What's the purpose?" I ask. "I'm not sure," he 
says, puzzled.

  After leaving the snipers, I collar other grunts who say they 
believe the prisoners are more apt to act out whenever they see 
one of the regular visitors from the International Committee of 
the Red Cross enter the camp. "They're looking to be 
disciplined," says one, so that any aggressive guard behavior 
will make it look as if they're being brutalized by the American 
military in front of international witnesses. ICRC visits, says 
another soldier, are the highlight of a prisoner's day, since 
they've been spotted "giving the unshackled prisoners cookies 
and milk, cigarettes, shaking their hands." Many organizations 
who haven't been to Gitmo, like Human Rights Watch, have been 
extremely critical of the prisoners' treatment, while the ICRC 
has aired no complaints. Still, says another soldier, "They're a 
pain in the ass. We see them offering them cookies, hugging them 
like they're best buddies. They're undermining everything we're 
trying to do."

  What we're trying to do isn't exactly clear at this point. We 
are certainly interrogating the prisoners, though base sources 
won't divulge any information that's been gleaned. The prisoners 
will likely be formally charged and tried, though when I called 
a senior Pentagon source to find out by whom and when, the 
source said, "If you find out, will you please tell me?"

  ON SUNDAY, Rumsfeld visits, and we hope for illumination. 
Sitting on a bus on the tarmac, waiting for the secretary to 
emerge from his plane, we pass the time as journalists do, 
discussing the AP-style spelling of "bin Laden," speculating 
whether the prisoners will get an Internet cafe (one of them has 
asked for video games), and making fun of the fresh-meat 
Pentagon press corps, who are overdressed in heavy wools instead 
of our much cooler island linens.

  One of Rumsfeld's security agents mounts our bus, telling us the 
ground rules: no photos on the tarmac, no fighting, no hitting 
Rumsfeld in the head with a boom mike. After Rumsfeld tours Camp 
X-Ray with four senators and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Richard Myers (who is so overshadowed by the secretary's 
rock star aura that one reporter has to ask who he is), Rumsfeld 
meets the press on Heartbreak Ridge. He gives the sort of hooah 
performance that has endeared him to both the troops and the 
press. While he remains as firm as ever that the detainees are 
"illegal combatants," not "prisoners of war," which would afford 
them more rights under the Geneva Convention, he nicely avoids 
plucking the only hair worth splitting--whether the captives' 
status is his call. (Human rights hawks say the matter should be 
decided by a "competent tribunal," whatever that is.)

  Even if it isn't up to Rumsfeld, the argument seems rather 
academic. It's hard to imagine anyone who has actually read the 
Geneva Convention wanting to confer POW status on alleged al 
Qaeda members. Doing so would not only make the terrorists 
eligible for repatriation to their home countries, but also 
would forbid their being punished for trying to escape, allow 
them to receive "scientific equipment" from home, and even 
confer upon them the right to dentures--in case they lost their 
teeth while, say, biting a guard. Most ludicrous, they would be 
afforded "advances of pay" in an amount "never ... inferior" to 
that which we pay our own armed forces. If you're a terrorist 
from Central Asia, it's not a bad deal: Kill Americans, get 
arrested, then get a pay raise from America.

  With all the global bellyaching about the detainees' right to 
humane treatment, it's hard to imagine them getting better 
treatment than they're already receiving. On my last day at 
Gitmo, all I have time to eat is a stale Ding Dong and a greasy 
plate of onion rings. My public affairs keepers couldn't care 
less. By contrast, for breakfast and lunch alone, the prisoners 
are served oatmeal, an orange, peanut butter, margarine, a 
"culturally appropriate" halal meal, and a giant snack pack 
containing Froot Loops, raisins, a Nature Valley granola bar, 
baked garlic bagel chips, and Bullseye barbecue-seasoned 
sunflower kernels. Still, the overseers of the prison are 
concerned that detainees aren't getting enough pita bread with 
their meals, and they're planning to make the food spicier, just 
the way the prisoners like it back home.

  While we wait, we journalists have to stand in the hot sun most 
of the day. After hours, we are confined to our Consolidated 
Bachelor Quarters, sleeping four to a duplex room on cots, some 
without pillows or blankets. We aren't even allowed to go the 
beach, a few hundred yards away from our building (though, 
emboldened by the rum we imported from Puerto Rico, a colleague 
and I make a mad dash under a guard searchlight for the 
bathwater Caribbean anyway). Besides drinking, our only 
entertainment is a pool table--one cue is cracked, the other is 
missing its tip. The prisoners, by contrast, get to read their 
Korans, while novels and more "religious books" are on the way.

  At the end of their day, they get a good night's sleep in a 
single cell. At the end of our day, we are told that a C-141 
(the same plane that transported the detainees) just became 
available, and we are prematurely hustled off so the military 
can dump us in Nowheresville, New Jersey, on a Sunday night 
after every rental car place in the state has closed.

  Perhaps the international community is right. The treatment 
being meted out at Guantanamo is inhumane. To see for yourself, 
don't bother canvassing Camp X-Ray prisoners. Just get a Gitmo 
press pass.

  
Matt Labash is senior writer at The Weekly Standard.

