CROATIA : Serbs throw bricks at Croatian HDZ party delegates .
	

    Serbs throw bricks at Croatian HDZ party delegates .
	

    Laura Lui
	

    ZAGREB 1997-03-31
	

    Hundreds of angry Serbs attacked delegates from Croatia's ruling HDZ party who had to be rescued by U.N. peacekeepers while trying to campaign for upcoming elections in Eastern Slavonia on Monday .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "HDZ activists" in s1. Also for "the vote" in s6.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "HDZ activists" in s1. Also for "the vote" in s6.]
	

    U.N. spokesman Douglas Coffman said the Croatian Democratic party ( HDZ ) held a press conference in a hotel in the town of Vukovar to present candidates who will run in the Serb enclave during nation-wide local elections on April 13 .
	

    The vote for county and municipal bodies will be the first in independent Croatia .
	

    Eastern Slavonia will revert to Croatian rule this summer .
	

    The HDZ members and a dozen Croatian journalists were first confronted by a small group of middle-aged women but the demonstration grew until there were "_ hundreds of protesters _" , Coffman said .
	

    "_ On their way out ( of the hotel ) HDZ activists and accompanying Croatian journalists were hit by a barrage of eggs and bricks , but nobody sustained any serious injuries , only bruises , _" he said .
	

    Croatian state radio said one journalist sustained a slight head injury while the bus in which they came was completely destroyed .
	

    "_ They had to be evacuated by Russian ( peacekeepers ) in armoured personnel carriers to the U.N. bases and then they were escorted out_of the region ( to Croatian government territory ) , _" said Coffman .
	

    Eastern Slavonia was one of three regions of Croatia in which local Serbs rebelled against Zagreb's drive for independence from federal Yugoslavia in 1991 and set up their own state .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides information needed for the understanding of "2 other enclaves" in s2.]
	

    Croatia recaptured two other enclaves in 1995 and agreed to peacefully "_ reintegrate _" Eastern Slavonia , now monitored by some 5,000 U.N. peacekeepers , whose mandate expires on July 15 .
	

    The head of the U.N. mission ( UNTAES ) , U.S. general Jacques Klein , was away during the visit , which was the first time HDZ had campaigned there since 1991 .
	

    Western officials are concerned that many Serbs , fearing reprisals or refusing to live under Croatian rule , may leave Eastern Slavonia before Zagreb's control is restored .
	

    Shortly after the incident , Ivica Vrkic , government official in charge of Eastern Slavonia urged the U.N. and international police to step up security measures in the enclave .
	

    "_ We remind you that it is the duty of UNTAES and the police duty to provide safety for such electoral campaigns .
	

    But today's incident will not postpone the election and the reintegration of Eastern Slavonia , _" he wrote in a letter .
