RUSSIA : Key points of Russia-Belarus draft Union Treaty .
	

    Key points of Russia-Belarus draft Union Treaty .
	

    MOSCOW 1997-03-31
	

    Here is an outline of the controversial draft Union Treaty between Russia and Belarus which was approved in principle by Russian leader Boris Yeltsin on Monday .
	

    Yeltsin meets Lukashenko on Wednesday to sign the document , prepared by Belarus authorities and Russian Deputy Prime Minister Valery Serov .
	

    The draft has not been published officially , but a copy of the document was obtained by Reuters .
	

    Much of it is contradictory and opponents say it could be misinterpreted .
	

    Liberals in Russia and in Belarus' nationalist opposition say it is harmful for the national interests of both countries and for further integration with other ex-Soviet states .
	

    The draft Union Treaty includes : BASIC PRINCIPLES : $-- The Union will become a separate legal entity in international relations , but both Russia and Belarus will preserve "_ state sovereignty , independence and territorial integrity _" .
	

    $-- Residents of both countries will also have Union citizenship
	

    $-- The Union is open to other independent countries
	

    COMPETENCE :
	

    $-- Protecting citizens' rights .
	

    $-- Offering equal access for citizens to medical services , jobs and other social benefits .
	

    $-- Developing a joint legal system , coordinating laws .
	

    $-- Joint running of energy , transport and communications systems .
	

    $-- Promoting trade and exchange of labour and capital .
	

    $-- Adhering to a common customs policy .
	

    $-- Promoting of joint scientific research .
	

    $-- Joint management of the Union's property .
	

    $-- Preparing to introduce a single currency .
	

    $-- Approval of the Union's budget .
	

    $-- Close coordination of foreign and military policy , including joint use of military infrastructure .
	

    $-- Creating mechanisms to carry out the decisions of Union governing bodies .
	

    $-- Approving the Union's symbols .
	

    EXCEPTION :
	

    $-- The pact does not affect rights and obligations of the members states under international treaties signed separately .
	

    BODIES :
	

    $-- A Supreme Council comprising heads of state , prime ministers , heads of parliament and a chairman of the Union's Executive Committee .
	

    It can tackle any problems within the Union's jurisdiction .
	

    $-- The chairman of the Council will be elected every two years and the post will rotate between the council members .
	

    $-- The chairman has the right to conduct negotiations on and sign international treaties on behalf of the Union .
	

    $-- A parliamentary Assembly comprising heads of parliaments .
	

    $-- The Assembly adopts legal acts which should be considered by national parliaments as recommendations and treated as a priority .
	

    $-- An executive committee comprising prime ministers .
	

    POWERS :
	

    $-- Decisions of the Union bodies should not exceed their authority and violate constitutions of the member states .
	

    They should be obeyed by state bodies of the member states , their legal entities and individuals .
	

    $-- Decisions of the Supreme Council are binding for executive bodies of member states .
	

    $-- Decisions of the Supreme Council are taken unanimously .
	

    Each member state has one vote .
