    Albania mourns shipwreck , Italy prepares force .
	

    Alister Doyle
	

    TIRANA 1997-03-31
	

    Chaotic Albania united in grief on Monday for those who drowned in a refugee-packed ship that sank in a collision with an Italian navy vessel , prompting outrage with Rome which is preparing a multinational force to protect aid deliveries in the lawless country .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the Balkan state" and "Friday's sinking". Also in s9, "the sinking". We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand "victims" and "bodies" towards the end of the text.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the Balkan state" and "Friday's sinking". Also in s9, "the sinking". We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand "victims" and "bodies" towards the end of the text.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the Balkan state" and "Friday's sinking". Also in s9, "the sinking". We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand "victims" and "bodies" towards the end of the text.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the Balkan state" and "Friday's sinking". Also in s9, "the sinking". We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand "victims" and "bodies" towards the end of the text.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the Balkan state" and "Friday's sinking". Also in s9, "the sinking". We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand "victims" and "bodies" towards the end of the text.]
	

    In Vlore , the rebel-held port from which the doomed boat sailed and one of two the Italian-led force is meant to secure , sobbing women cast flowers into the sea and gunmen blasted a barrage of bullets into the sky .
	

    About 3,000 people attended a rally denouncing Italy for Friday's sinking $-- in which Tirana says 83 people died $-- and blaming Albanian President Sali Berisha for the Balkan state's slide towards chaos .
	

    Albania's flag , red with a two-headed black eagle , flew at half-mast around the nation on a day of mourning for the victims of the collision between the crammed Russian-built harbour patrol vessel and an Italian navy ship .
	

    At midday , drivers blared their horns across the capital , sirens wailed and church bells rang as people paused for a minute to grieve for the victims of Albania's worst maritime disaster of modern times .
	

    Mosques and churches held prayers and state television played solemn music all day .
	

    The mobile telephone network shut down for 15 minutes at midday as a sign of respect .
	

    Grief and anger cast a long shadow over Italy's plans to lead a force of about 2,500 troops or police , with another 2,500 in reserve , to protect deliveries of food and medicines in the former communist state racked by armed unrest .
	

    Many of the 34 survivors of the sinking accused the Italian navy of ramming their vessel to stem a flood of refugees after about 13,000 fled across the Adriatic this month .
	

    Italy says those leaving now are fleeing for economic reasons .
	

    Four bodies have been found so_far .
	

    Rome pushed ahead undaunted with preparations for the multilateral force as Italy's navy , which denies it was to blame , searched for more victims .
	

    Athens said on Monday it would contribute about 700 soldiers and Romania said it would send 400 .
	

    France , Spain , Portugal , Austria and Turkey have also expressed willingness to take part .
	

    Much of southern Albania is in rebel hands after protests at the collapse of popular savings schemes this year spilled into insurrection .
	

    Looting is rife and most foreign nationals have been lifted out .
	

    Dutch diplomat Jan de Marchant et d'Ansembourg , the head of a European Union mission planning aid and security , told Reuters advance units were "_ not likely before the end of the week . _"
	

    D'Ansembourg noted Berisha was firmly in favour of the multinational force and that parliament voted overwhelmingly to accept it on Sunday , two days after the sinking .
	

    Demonstrators in Vlore chanted anti-Berisha slogans in the square by a monument marking where Albania declared independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1912 .
	

    "_ We want the Italian government to accept its responsibilities publicly and compensate the victims , _" said Albert Shyti , head of the self-styled salvation committee in Vlore .
     Comments: this contains speech, but conveys information vital to the topic of the text.
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "He"]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "He"]
	

    He said that Italy must also recover all bodies .
     Comments: This is linked to the previous speech, but again, is vital.
     Link: [Comments: both of the previous sentences need to be included as "these steps" in s3 refers to the whole of s1 and s2.]
	

    "_ Only after the Italian government has taken these steps we will be willing to accept Italians in our town , _" he said .
     Comments: Speech, but important.
	

    The multinational force is also due_to secure the northern port of Durres and Tirana airport for supplies , running short because_of the weeks of unrest , looting and banditry .
	

    The ATA news agency said that two children were killed by a bomb in the central village of Romanice and said that a man was found murdered in nearby Berat .
	

    In the northern town of Kukes , gunmen looted private homes and public offices and a 22-year-old man was killed by gunfire in a new outbreak of violence after an apparent lull .
	

    Italy , which invaded Albania in 1939 , has become Tirana's closest Western partner since Albania's Stalinist communism collapsed in 1990 .
	

    Rome sent 500 unarmed troops for two years from 1991 to guard aid deliveries and seek to discourage a flood of refugees .
