    JAPAN : Japan land scheme called good first step .
	

    Japan land scheme called good first step .
	

    Ritsuko Shimizu
	

    TOKYO 1997-03-31
	

    Japan announced a range of measures on Monday to try to jump start its long-stalled real estate market , a move analysts called a good first step but hardly the final answer to the problem .
	

    Forming the backbone of the package was the easing of rules that would allow real estate held as collateral to be turned into securities to be sold to investors .
	

    Huge , unrealised losses in real estate are seen by many analysts as being at the core of Japan's financial traumas .
	

    The changes are aimed at helping banks , property holders and others accept those losses so they can begin growing again .
	

    Other measures include the use of public money to buy up land for public development projects , such as old-age homes , day-care centres and parks , as_well_as the easing of zoning and other regulations to promote such projects .
	

    "_ Even if they only achieve 60 percent , it_ 's still pretty significant , _" said Darrel Whitten , a strategist at Lehman Brothers Japan .
	

    "_ It_ 's not an end-all solution but it_ 's a step in the right direction , _" he said .
	

    The measures are seen as vital if Japan's banks are to one day rid themselves of their mountain of bad loans .
	

    Many of the bad loans were made in the 1980s "_ bubble era _" of sky-high stock and land prices to the real estate sector , with property used as collateral .
	

    Analysts and banking sources said that some areas of the scheme , such as tax reform , needed to be sorted out to attract investors to real estate-backed securities .
	

    "_ There are key areas which are still sketchy , they have only said that taxes on real-estate trust certificates and special purpose companies are under review , _" said an official at a leading trust bank .
	

    The Ministry of Finance said trust banks would be allowed to issue securities linked to real estate business loans immediately , while rules allowing the establishment of special purpose companies to handle such securities would be introduced in the fiscal year starting from April 1 , 1998 .
     Link: [Comments: s1 mentions the securities that are referred to by "securitisation" in s2.]
	

    Analysts also said the amount of public money to be set aside to buy land was not enough to make a huge impact on either land prices or to help bodies which administer bad loans .
	

    The Ministry of Finance said bodies such as the Housing Loan Administration Corp , which administers the debts of failed "_ jusen _" housing loan companies , would present a list of around 380 billion yen ( $3.06 billion ) worth of property to the government to be considered for public development .
	

    "_ The situation is already an inferno but the government has only got to the stage of ordering a fire engine , _" said an analyst at a real estate research institute .
	

    Others also said while securitisation would provide a framework for channelling funds into the land market , not much was going to happen until investors believed prices had bottomed out .
	

    Tokyo commercial land prices , for_instance , are now estimated to be 71 percent off their 1991 peak .
	

    A string of successful sales of blue-chip properties over the past two months have given a psychological boost to the market , leading many analysts to declare the worst over for prime property .
	

    But even Richard Li , whose Hong Kong's Pacific Century Group bought a tract of prime Tokyo land for double its forecast price , says while generally bullish on Japan's land market , he does not think prices have hit bottom .
	

    "_ I think it has not hit the rock bottom , we are in the last 10 percent $... at the most , in my view the last 15 percent , _" he told Reuters Financial Television in an interview last week .
	

    ( $1=124 yen )
