CAMBODIA : Cambodian grenade attack rattles investors .
	

    Cambodian grenade attack rattles investors .
	

    Katya Robinson
	

    PHNOM PENH 1997-03-31
	

    Sunday's deadly grenade attack has sent jitters though Cambodia's business community and could stall new foreign investment for months , analysts said on Monday .
	

    "_ Our economy is so fragile now , this is the last thing we needed , _" said Tep Rithivit , a Cambodian-Canadian business consultant whose firm represents foreign corporations here .
	

    "_ Everyone is very concerned it will have long-term repercussions .
	

    We_ 're worried the story may not stop here . _"
	

    At_least 14 people were killed and more than 100 wounded in the attack on opposition demonstrators in front of the National Assembly .
	

    Police said four grenades were thrown into a crowd of up_to 200 protesting against alleged corruption in the judiciary .
	

    Protest leader and apparent target Sam Rainsy , who narrowly escaped injury , on Sunday blamed the attack on his bitter foe , co-Premier Hun Sen. But a spokesman for the Information Ministry said it was unclear who was responsible and that an investigation was under way .
	

    For many investors , the attack was a reminder that four years into democratic and economic reforms , Cambodia remains a risky place to do business .
	

    Security and political instability , exacerbated by the rivalry of co-Premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun Sen , compound the challenges of an incomplete commercial code , corruption and war-scarred infrastructure , analysts said .
	

    Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party ( CPP ) formed an uneasy coalition government with the royalist FUNCINPEC after U.N.-organised elections in 1993 .
	

    The next general elections are due_to be held in November 1998 .
	

    Political strains have already led to the annulment of three contracts with the country's largest investor , Ariston Sdn Bhd of Malaysia .
	

    Diplomats and business representatives said they had received numerous phone calls from worried investors and prospective investors since Sunday's attack .
	

    Several delegations had cancelled trips to Cambodia and companies with expatriate staff were worried about security , they said .
	

    "_ People will be scared away for six months , _" said one Association of Southeast Asian Nations diplomat . "_ But it_ 's cyclical here , and people have short attention spans . _"
	

    He said that while ASEAN would likely not delay Cambodia's expected entry this year , the incident would raise eyebrows among its neighbours .
	

    "_ I think what happened will generate a_lot_of questions , _" a second diplomat said .
	

    ASEAN groups Brunei , Indonesia , Malaysia , the Philippines , Singapore , Thailand and Vietnam .
	

    The seven agreed last year that Cambodia , Laos and Burma would be admitted at the same time .
	

    "_ We_ 're concerned , _" said Edgar Chua , whose Shell Co of Cambodia Ltd has invested $50 million in Cambodia . "_ But we_ 're still assessing ( to see ) if it is an isolated incident or a sign of things to come . _"
	

    Some analysts said it could take months to know the full damage to Cambodia , which is anxious to lure business to rebuild a economy with a per_capita gross domestic product of less than $300 a year .
	

    Richard Hines , national chief executive for Societe Generale de Surveillance of Switzerland , said the attack was "_ the worst in a while _" .
	

    "_ It may be expected as elections ( approach ) , _" he said . "_ Everyone's obviously watching very closely . _"
