JAPAN : BOJ seen allowing money rate fluctuation $- analysts .
	

    BOJ seen allowing money rate fluctuation $- analysts .
	

    Risa Maeda
	

    TOKYO 1997-03-31
	

    The Bank of Japan ( BOJ ) may continue to let Japanese short-term money rates to fluctuate widely after April 1 to remind the market of the risk of relying too much on overnight money , analysts said on Monday .
	

    Financial institutions were inclined to raise funds at the short-end of the market on the belief that the BOJ will stick to its nearly 19-month-old committment to keep the average of the key overnight rate below its base rate to support Japan's fragile economic recovery .
	

    But analysts and bankers said the convenience financial firms now find in the quasi-fixed overnight money may sooner of later be replaced by risk .
	

    That is partly because the central bank seems more likely to keep the upward bias in the key overnight rate than before , given BOJ governor Yasuo Matsushita's remarks last week .
	

    The BOJ also needs to encourage the financial institutions to reduce their reliance on overnight money prior_to its introduction of the "_ real-time gross settlement _" ( RTGS ) system , they said .
 	

    For_example , analysts said , a sudden rise to 0.58 percent in the key overnight call rate on March 24 , when many banks suffered from paying more than they expected , was seen as planned .
	

    The rate was at 0.53 percent on the previous day .
	

    "_ By allowing the key overnight rate to rise sharply , the BOJ at that time let market participants know that they should take a liquidity risk as long as they rely on the overnight money , _" said Shoji Kitta , president of Totan Research Co .
	

    "_ Also , if the BOJ leaves the current upward bias in the key overnight rate after April , which is highly likely , that may encourage banks to use longer-term transactions and lessen settlement risks in trading overnight money , _" he said .
	

    Overnight money totalled 25.5 trillion yen at the end of January , which accounted more than 60 percent of the outstanding amounts in the call interbank money market .
	

    On Monday , the BOJ supplied more liquidity than expected .
	

    But the key overnight rate was boosted to 0.85 percent by some banks which were in great need of overnight money after failing to raise enough longer-term funds covering the fiscal year-end , bankers said .
	

    The BOJ said it would announce on Tuesday a framework of the new settlement system which is to start by the year 2000 .
	

    The central bank has since December gathered ideas from the financial institutions based in Tokyo on the RTGS system , in which transactions are settled instantly on a real-time basis through the accounts that they have at the BOJ .
	

    The BOJ has said the financial firms' efforts to reduce reliance on overnight call money and do more longer-term transactions is necessary for an introduction of the RTGS .
	

    The current system in which transactions are settled at four specific points within a day is efficient as long as there is no bank failure .
	

    But once any defaults , all transactions would need to be halted , paralysing the entire system .
	

    "_ Once banks do have concerns about liquidity risk , they should raise more longer-term funds .
	

    They also need to increase collateral to enable them to raise funds from the market because that is likely to be required under the RTGS system , _" said a senior official at a major city bank .
	

    $-- Tokyo Treasury Desk +81-33432-8570
