    Stephen Young on the animals that excel in fuel economy Camels do it better .
	

    THREE wise men ca n't be wrong .
	

    The camel is without_doubt one of the natural world '_ s most remarkable forms of transport .
	

    Consider the specification of the average dromedary : a top speed of 650 kilometres in four days under Saharan conditions , a regular luggage capacity of 200 kilograms and a maximum recorded burden of 865 kilograms .
	

    Also fitted as standard : a handy fuel store in the hump and an attitude to water conservation which , if widely adopted , would halve the price of water shares overnight .
	

    Underpinning all these accomplishments is the camel '_ s efficient use of metabolic fuel ?
	

    a skill put to good use by Mohammed '_ s camel , which allegedly covered the distance between Mecca and Jerusalem in four bounds .
	

    Modern observations are more conservative but no less intriguing .
	

    With such thoughts in mind , three zoologists led by M. K. Yousef of the University of Nevada gathered recently in Australia to investigate the camel '_ s fuel economy .
	

    The focus of their studies was a group of six half-tamed dromedaries , originally part of the feral camel population of central Australia .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    The researchers _' aim was simply to measure the amount of oxygen consumed by the camels under various conditions .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    As each beast ambled at its own pace along a farm track , the team collected its breath with the help of a gas-tight mask and a weather balloon .
	

    Analysis of the gas in the balloon told the team how much oxygen the camels were using as they walked .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    This figure is directly related to the rate of consumption of metabolic fuel ?
	

    the camel '_ s equivalent of mpg .
	

    For comparative purposes , the team also took a similar set of readings on human walkers .
	

    Once the zoologists had taken account of the difference in weight , the camels emerged as clear winners .
	

    Over the same distance , people use two and a half times more energy ( per kilogram of their bulk ) than the average camel .
	

    Although large animals are generally more efficient at walking than small ones ?
	

    just as trains outperform cars ?
	

    the camel is in an altogether different league .
	

    It uses less than three-quarters of the energy expected of a mammal of its size .
	

    The camel '_ s metabolic response to heavy loads is no less dramatic .
	

    Most animals increase their fuel consumption in proportion to the extra baggage they are carrying , but not the camel .
	

    With a burden of about 150 kilograms ?
	

    equal to more than a quarter of its body weight ?
	

    a camel burns only around 15 per_cent more fuel than it burns unladen .
	

    The findings throw fresh light on the camel '_ s former popularity both as pack animal and military mount .
	

    When Alexander the Great looted Persepolis in 330BC , he wisely enlisted 500 camels to carry the booty .
	

    Equally perceptively , Napoleon Bonaparte founded his own crack camel corps after studying the progress of a desert caravan .
	

    As the Christmas story demonstrates , more peace-loving potentates also appreciate the camel '_ s skills .
	

    Zoologists have yet to establish the precise mechanisms behind the camel '_ s fuel economy .
	

    One candidate is the leg musculature , which may turn out to be constructed from slower , more efficient fibres than those employed elsewhere .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    Another candidate is the unique stepping gait .
     Link: [Comments: enumeration]
	

    Camels operate each foreleg and its associated hindleg in unison , more_like a pantomime horse than a regular quadruped .
	

    This method of progression is unsettling enough to make some riders seasick , but it may hold the key to the beast '_ s endurance . ( Physiological Zoology , vol. 62 , p. 1080 
. ) Forelegs good-and hind legs too ?
	

    secret of the dromedary '_ s success
