USA : Ashland , Marathon coy on downstream merger talks .
	

    Ashland , Marathon coy on downstream merger talks .
	

    NEW YORK 1997-03-31
	

    Ashland Inc said Monday that it is still looking for a partner for its refining and marketing business , though the company would neither confirm nor deny a report that it is about to announce a deal with Marathon Oil Co .
     Link: [Comments: the "also" means that s1 is needed to make complete sense of s2.]
	

    "_ We announced in December that we were going to aggressively seek a joint venture partnership or other strategic alliance and we are actively persuing that , _" said Chuck Rice , a spokesman at the company's Ashland , Kentucky head office .
	

    A report published last Thursday by Oil Price Information Service , an oil industry publication , said that an "_ imminent _" deal would give Marathon 52 percent of Ashland's three U.S. refineries and retail network .
	

    "_ We_ 've been linked with several companies _" since the December announcement , Rice noted .
	

    Among those previously rumored are Amoco Corp and BP America , both companies which have a major presence in the middle of the U.S. where Ashland is concentrated .
	

    Marathon also declined to comment on whether_or_not the two companies had a deal .
	

    "_ That talk has been going on for months , but we do not have a comment on that issue , _" said John Farrell , a Marathon spokesman .
	

    Ashland , under pressure last year from investor Providence Capital to improve its performance , announced a major restructuring in December .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "the company" in s2.]
	

    However , the main plank of the deal has yet to materialize and the company's shares have been underperforming .
	

    Under the restructuring , the largest section of Ashland Inc was bundled into the Ashland Petroleum Group , including the large Catlettsburg , Kentucky refinery and two smaller plants at St. Paul , Minnesota and Canton , Ohio which together have capacity to process slighly more than 350,000 barrels of crude a day .
	

    Also in this group are 750 company-owned outlets ( SuperAmerica , Ashland ) plus a 523-store branded jobber network , the Valvoline motor oil business and pipeline and other distribution assets mainly grouped under Scurlock Permian interests .
	

    Ashland , after appointing CS First Boston advisor last December , said earlier this month that it is seeking an initial public offering ( IPO ) of 3.1 million shares in its exploration unit , Blazer Energy Inc .
	

    The company plans to offer 82.3 percent of the company to Ashland Inc shareholders after offering 17.7 percent in the IPO .
	

    Blazer Energy consists of an Appalachian natural gas operation and about 20,000 barrels per day of crude oil production in Nigeria .
	

    Also , as part of the restructuring , Ashland said it will merge the coal businesses in which it holds controlling interests , Ashland Coal and Arch Mineral of St. Louis .
	

    Ashland's chemical business , which had operating income of $169 million in 1996 and is the company's fastest growing sector , continued to make acquisitions in the first quarter .
	

    The company also has an ongoing program to buy back up_to a million common shares .
	

    Despite the company's efforts , however , its shares have performed badly since early December , dropping by about 15 percent to $40_3/8 on Friday and trailing the Dow Jones Inustrial average by the same amount over the period .
	

    $-- ( ( New York Energy Desk , +1_212_859 1623 ) )
