	
Buenos Aires, 22 April (Telam) -- Justicialist Deputy Jose Manuel Diaz Bancalari said today that the IMF "is seeking to create an uncontrollable social situation" with the demands it has made of the government and, on the other hand, he confirmed the PJ [Justicialist Party] bloc's willingness to support approval of the draft law on bonds submitted by the executive branch. 
	
	
 "It seems as if they are seeking to create an uncontrollable social situation," the legislator stated this morning, referring to the demands presented by the IMF to the country for reaching a new agreement that would bring in foreign financing for the government's accounts. Analyzing the IMF's responsibility in the complex crisis the country is experiencing, Diaz Bancalari stated his impression that "the IMF members want more money for themselves," without admitting "any degree of co-responsibility their managers have had in the things that have happened in Argentina." He believes that "in any negotiation there may be someone who tries to impose conditions by cheating" and said that in the case of Argentina, "the cheaters were the IMF," who "praised the policies (of the last decade) and held them up as an example" and now "they cannot tell us that they did not know what was going on." 
	
	
 "I think there must be reasonable things" in the agreement the country reaches with the IMF, Diaz Bancalari said, and then he asserted that "Argentina is a country in which one can do good business, but what they must know is that there is no more room for shady deals." At the same time, he admitted the political leadership's "own mistakes" and those of his party in particular, acknowledging the existence of a "certain political vision that is infiltrating Peronism, which is a liberal vision." "All the governments are saying that Argentina has to make arrangements first with the IMF before receiving any kind of aid, and they know perfectly well that they are asking us to put 450,000 fellow citizens out of work, and that is only possible with a military government," he asserted. 
	
	
 Regarding the draft law from the executive branch on swapping bonds for fixed-term deposits, he believes that if the Senate "debates and approves it today" the deputies can "debate the issue tomorrow and pass it, so that on Wednesday [24 April] the financial system would be open." 
	
	
 Although he confirmed the PJ bloc's support for the work of President [Eduardo] Duhalde, Diaz Bancalari expressed his surprise at "the statements by some government officials in which they want to make it seem that there is no will to discuss it in our circles." However, he clarified that the willingness to deal quickly with the draft law "does not mean a desire to approve it, because discussing it in the abstract is not very responsible." 
	
	
 The deputy stressed the value of the bonds the government will issue for the depositors, asking who would want "certificates of deposit in bankrupt banks" and saying that instead, "however we move forward into the future, there will always be the state's legal continuity backing the obligation." 
	
	
	


