USA : Sale of U.S. power agencies would be complex $- GAO .
	

    Sale of U.S. power agencies would be complex $- GAO .
	

    WASHINGTON 1997-03-31
	

    Selling off federal hydropower plants and power marketing agencies would be very complex and would likely affect electricity prices in some areas , according_to a Congressional report released Monday .
	

    The General Accounting Office report surveyed all the interests that the government would need to address if it chose to sell the Southeastern , Southwestern and Western Area Power Marketing Administrations .
     Link: [Comments: We need s1 to explain "GAO" in s2]
	

    However , the report did not weigh the costs and benefits of a sale , a hot issue for lawmakers looking to balance the budget and for companies pushing for open power markets .
	

    The lawmakers who asked for the report , led by Rep. Charles Norwood , a Georgia Republican , last week urged House Republican leaders to reject any plans to sell the power agencies , saying the fiscal benefits were questionable .
	

    The report did not specify what the effect would be on rates , saying : "_ The potential effects of a divestiture on wholesale and retail electric rates , which in turn would affect regional economies , are other important issues . _"
	

    Citing advocates for selling the power marketing agencies , the GAO said the private sector would be able to operate and maintain the assets more efficiently than the government .
     Link: [Comments: "GAO" in s1 is needed to explain "it" in s2]
	

    But it said that opponents of privatization believed that in the long run the Treasury would lose more revenue than it would gain in proceeds from a sale .
	

    "_ Until a specific divestiture plan is presented for evaluation , it will be impossible to quantify how much various groups will be helped and hurt by the privatization of Federal hydropower assets , _" the Energy Department said in a February 18 letter attached to the report .
	

    "_ It is highly unlikely that a '_ win-win _' situation exists that would make all taxpayers and all power customers better off , _" the department said .
	

    The Clinton administration itself proposed privatizing the agencies two years ago to earn some quick revenue , but dropped the idea when lawmakers balked at losing the cheap electricity in their districts .
	

    If the government decided to privatize the federal assets , it would have to find a way to balance the competing uses of water from federal projects for irrigation , power generation , and protection of fish and wildlife , the GAO said .
	

    It would also have to settle contracts involving several agencies and settle Native American water and property claims .
	

    The three power marketing administrations covered in the report supply about 7 percent of the electricity needs of their utility customers , mostly to meet peak demand , at half the rates charged by other utilities , the report said .
	

    ( ( $-- Sonali Paul , ( 202 )
	

    898-8320 ) )
