	
SALONICA (A.A) - 15.04.2002 - State Minister Kemal Dervis for Economy arrived in Salonica city of Greece on Sunday to attend a conference to be organized by the Black Sea Commerce and Development Bank, and to hold a series of contacts with Greek officials. 
	
	
 State Minister Dervis held a press conference at the Turkish Consulate General in Salonica after his arrival. 
	
	
 Speaking at the press conference, Dervis said, ``economic cooperation between Turkey and Greece will make an important contribution to the Balkans, Middle East and the Black Sea regions. I call it as formation of good economic neighborhood. Turkey and Greece can cooperate in many fields like they have been doing so within structure of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC). For instance, tourism will become the most rapidly developing field for the next two decades. Turkey and Greece have the opportunity of cooperating in tourism.`` 
	
	
 Recalling that the new tender law had enabled everyone to join public investment tenders, Dervis said that Greek investors could benefit from the law. 
	
	
 Noting that financial crisis came to an end in Turkey, Dervis said, ``financial crisis and panic ended. However, I do not mean that we overcame all problems. We should act carefully. We envisage a 3 percent growth in 2002. We also plan to decrease inflation from 70 percent to 35 percent.`` 
	
	
 State Minister Dervis will deliver a speech at the conference. 
	
	
 He is also scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting with Greek Development Minister Akis Tsokhatzopoulos. 
	
	
 After his meeting with Greek businessmen, Dervis will come together with Greek Minister Yeoryios Paskhalidhis for Macedonia and Thrace on Monday. 
	
	
 Dervis will depart from Greece later in the day after paying a visit to Salonica Mayor Vasilis Papayorgopoulos. 
	
	
 State Minister Kemal Dervis has said that regional cooperation structures like the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) were not the antithesis of globalization. 
	
	
 Dervis who arrived in Salonica on Sunday attended the opening of the conference entitled, ``Black Sea Business Day`` which was organized by Black Sea Commerce and Development Bank. 
	
	
 Speaking at the opening of the conference, Dervis defined the regional cooperation as formation of good neighborly field and said, ``the success of Western Europe after World War II laid in its creation of the good neighborly field. For example, South America is not a good neighborly field, and therefore, all regional countries are suffering from difficulties.`` 
	
	
 Dervis said that regional countries` making investment in any sector was not a loss for the other regional countries, but was a benefit, and stated that the investors who got used to the region would also come to the other countries and this was effective especially in tourism sector. 
	
	
 Dervis said that the power of the globalization were stronger than the effects of regionalization. 
	
	
 Dervis went on saying, ``for example, the European Union (EU) is a story of success. It is impossible not to wonder at the creators of the EU. Europe should not be considered as a block which has the definite borders. There were earlier iron curtain countries and their borders were definite. Now they are not. We do not know how Europe will develop towards southeast and east 15 or 20 years later.`` 
	
	
 Dervis who defined the BSEC bank as an interesting idea, said that he believed that if that bank developed within a few years and entered the international markets, the bank would contribute to the improvement of the region in following years. 
	
	
 Dervis stated that Turkey had shown a great economic performance in last 20-25 years, and added that Turkish economy grew by 7-8 percent. 
	
	
 He said, ``unfortunately, crises followed those rapid growth periods lasting for 3-4 years. But around 4.5 percent growth was caught. However, it could be better. We have made many reforms in last period. A total of 21 laws prepared. We will have low inflation and a stable economy as of 2003-2004.`` 
	
	
 Dervis who touched on the cooperation between Turkey and Greece, said, ``the cooperation between Turkey and Greece also have great importance symbolically. I hoped that Turkish and Greek foreign ministers will visit Middle East jointly. This will show that they can convey the message of peace to the third countries.`` 
	
	
 Dervis came together with Greek Development Minister Akis Tsokhatzopoulos following the opening of the ceremony.	


