
   Khatami congratulates Venezuelan nation for Chavez' return

 



  
Tehran, April 20, IRNA -- President Mohammad Khatami on Friday 
evening congratulated the Venezuelan government and nation for 
the victory and restoration of the legitimate government of 
President Hugo Chavez after a failed military coup in that 
country.

  During a telephone conversation, President Khatami told his 
Venezuelan counterpart, President Hugo Chavex, that the return 
of the legitimate president and government to power was a 
victory of justice and freedom.

  The Iranian president also expressed the hope that with the 
return of President Chavez the Venezuelan government would be 
able to achieve its exalted objectives with the support of the 
people.

  Referring to the difficult period the venezuelan nation went 
through in the past week, President Chavez said the 
anti-democractic attempts to topple his government failed with 
the help of the Almighty God and the people.

  As to the re-establishment of legal order in his country, Chavez 
briefed the Iranian president on the latest developments in his 
country.

  Referring to the objective of those who were behind the military 
coup in Venezuela, Chavez said they wwanted to have Venezuela 
come out from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting 
Countries (OPEC) and therefore tried to produce more oil in 
order to undermine the organization.

  President Chavez thanked President Khatami for his telephone 
call and wished success for the Iranian government and nation.

  The two presidents expressed a mutual desire to meet in the near 
future.

  Iran, Sunday last week, sent congratulations to Venezuela on 
hearing of the return of the rule of law and reinstatement of 
the legitimate government of President Chavez after the two-day 
military collapsed.

  On Saturday it condemned the the ouster of the democratically 
elected president of Venezuela, saying, "resorting to a coup and 
the use of force is not an acceptable method to bring about 
political change and the method is not in conformity with the 
norms of present human society."

  Chavez was brought back to the Venezuelan presidential palace 
early Sunday by helicopter from a Caribbean island where he was 
detained after the coup and thereafter resumed his functions as 
president.

  Chavez, whose mandate was due to end in 2006, was forced out of 
office by the country's armed forces who blamed him for the 
deaths of 15 people during demonstrations in the streets of 
central Caracas against an opposition protest which later became 
violent.

  Chavez is a staunch supporter of oil production cuts in order to 
boost prices in the world market.

  He initiated a successful Caracas OPEC summit in September 2000, 
the second in the 40-year existence of the Organization of 
Petroleum Exporting Countries. FS/LS End

