	
The European Parliament, which convened yesterday in Strasbourg, decided to advise the 15 member states of the European Union to impose economic sanctions on Israel and, specifically, to suspend association agreements with Jerusalem. In addition, the Parliament called for imposing a weapons embargo on Israel and the Palestinian Authority. 
	
	
 For some time, European politicians have threatened to suspend economic ties with Israel -- a move, which in light of close and extensive trade relations between EU member states and Israel, could cause serious damage. 
	
	
 Earlier this week, Belgian Foreign Minister Louis Michel, who does not miss an opportunity to provoke Israel, threatened that the EU would once again reconsider its relations with Jerusalem. European Commission President Romano Prodi expressed similar sentiments: in his opinion, the EU should consider imposing an economic "punishment" on Israel in protest against the operations of the Israel Defense Forces in the territories. The same goes for Spanish Foreign Minister Josep Pique, who was offended after Israel refused to allow him and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana to meet with PA Chairman Yasser Arafat in Ramallah. 
	
	
 Despite the Parliament's recommendation, the chances that the association agreements will be suspended are very slim. It takes more than a recommendation from the European Parliament for this to happen; the decision has to be taken by both the European Commission and the EU's Council of Foreign Ministers, on which all 15 foreign ministers sit, and has to be unanimous. 
	
	
 Countries like France and Belgium are easily capable of voting for sanctions against Israel, but other states -- including Germany and Britain -- have exhibited a more balanced position regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
	
	
 However, the fact that certain countries have a more balanced view of the conflict is not the only reason to doubt that anti-Israeli decisions will, in fact, be adopted. The Europeans know that repeated denunciations of Israel, not to mention its punishment, will not lead to a solution of the conflict. Israel will not change its positions on vital security issues, even if the European states eliminate customs breaks afforded to Israeli exports. If the Europeans wish to influence Israel in the political arena -- in a direction that many in Israel would support wholeheartedly -- they will not be able to promote their positions in such a manner. 
	
	
 A unilateral move is likely to prejudice Europe's status in helping to find a solution to the conflict. EU External Affairs Commissioner Chris Patten expressed this clearly Tuesday when he said that canceling the association agreements between Israel and the EU would do nothing to enhance Jerusalem's readiness to listen to European representatives. 
	
	
 What holds true with regard to threats by EU leaders also holds true for threats expressed by certain European states and the means of punishment they might already be implementing. There have been reports that vital components German factories are supposed to supply to the defense establishment are arriving slowly, as is the case regarding the arrival of vital supplies from other European countries. 
	
	
 One cannot assume that Israel will act under the pressure of deeds and oversights that are often tainted with a significant degree of hypocrisy.	


