
Many fear violence after Zimbabwe vote

 



  

HARARE, Zimbabwe Wellington Chinyama sat down in a barber's 
chair, unfolded his newspaper and without glancing up asked the 
young man trimming his hair the question that seems to be on 
virtually everyone's mind here: "So Joseph, have you prepared 
yourself for Zimbabwe's civil war?"

  As Zimbabweans go to the polls this weekend to re-elect or oust 
Robert Mugabe, the only leader the country has ever known, the 
question of who will win the election seems almost secondary to 
how the loser and his followers will respond.

  Surveys show the challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai, a trade union 
leader, ahead of Mugabe. But a surge in political violence and 
accusations that the governing party changed election laws to 
rig the vote have fanned widespread concerns among Zimbabweans, 
election monitors and foreign diplomats that neither political 
party nor their supporters are prepared to accept the final 
tally.

  "It does not take a vivid imagination to envision a scenario on 
the ground where either rioters or the military take to the 
streets in the days to come," an African diplomat said.

  Most disturbing are pronouncements by senior government 
officials and military leaders that they would not allow this 
former British colony to be led by Tsvangirai and his political 
party, the Movement for Democratic Change. In a television 
interview broadcast the other day, Didymus Mutasa, a spokesman 
for Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, said that he and other 
veterans of the country's independence war found the prospect of 
a Tsvangirai government intolerable.

  "People have said being ruled by the MDC is being ruled by Ian 
Smith," Mutasa said, referring to the prime minister of 
white-ruled Rhodesia, as the country was known before gaining 
independence in 1980. "Under these circumstances, if there were 
to be a coup, we would support it very definitely."

  At least 34 people have died in political violence this year, 
almost all of them supporters of the Movement for Democratic 
Change. State Department officials this week accused Mugabe's 
government of numerous human rights violations during the 
election campaign, an allegation vehemently denied by ZANU-PF 
officials.

  A newspaper reported that Mugabe had put the armed forces on 
"high alert" and had recalled soldiers from neighboring Congo, 
where they have been deployed in that country's civil war. 
Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri denied the reports.

  Many Zimbabweans see this weekend's election as a contest 
between immovable forces: a 78-year-old autocrat desperate to 
remain in power and an opposition party dominated by restless 
young citizens weary of government corruption, food shortages 
and unemployment.

  "If Mugabe announces that he has won the election, I think that 
people will not believe it and will storm the castle," said 
Sibongile Mbuyiso, an opposition supporter. "But if the MDC 
wins, I believe Mugabe will announce martial law, throw 
Tsvangirai in jail for plotting to kill him and send the army 
into the streets."

  Government officials last month charged Tsvangirai and two other 
officials of his party with high treason for allegedly plotting 
to assassinate Mugabe. That charge is based largely on a heavily 
edited videotape in which Tsvangirai refers to the "elimination" 
of Mugabe.

  Tsvangirai was responding to a question posed by a Canadian 
publicist with whom he was meeting and who subsequently signed a 
contract with ZANU-PF. Political analysts say the charges may 
have laid the groundwork for Mugabe to jail Tsvangirai as a 
last-ditch effort to stay in power should he lose the election.

  But that outcome is certainly not a foregone conclusion. 
Opposition officials say that 22 of their polling agents have 
been abducted in the past week, and a surge in violent attacks 
in swing districts could persuade enough opposition supporters 
to vote for ZANU-PF to ensure Mugabe's victory.

  In addition, governing party officials have revised election 
laws and procedures in a manner that could change the outcome of 
the vote, according to independent election observers.

  ZANU-PF officials have told election observers that they intend 
to increase the number of polling stations in rural areas 
believed to be their strongholds and reduce the number of 
stations in urban areas, where there is strong support for the 
opposition. Observers say that could produce long voting lines 
and discourage some Tsvangirai supporters from casting ballots.

  ZANU-PF election officials also plan to use civil service 
employees to monitor the vote-counting and bar independent 
monitors from nonprofit organizations from assisting in such 
routine tasks as transporting ballot boxes to counting stations. 
A residency requirement introduced last month bans registered 
voters from casting ballots if they cannot provide leases or 
utility bills in their names. That, according to foreign 
diplomats and Tsvangirai supporters, could disenfranchise 
hundreds of thousands of young opposition supporters who live 
with their parents.

  "Clearly, Mugabe is doing everything he can to steal this 
election," said John Makumbe, a political science professor at 
the University of Zimbabwe.

  Tsvangirai said at a news conference Thursday night that if he 
won the election, he would not prosecute Mugabe. That could ease 
pressure on Mugabe to remain in power to avoid prosecution for 
his government's attack in the 1980s in Matabeleland, the home 
of the Ndebele tribe, which at the time posed the most 
significant threat to his leadership. An estimate of the number 
of people killed in the operation ranges from 10,000 to 20,000.


Copyright @ 2002 the International Herald Tribune All Rights 
Reserved



