ALBANIA : Albania's second port now a rebel-held wasteland .
	

    Albania's second port now a rebel-held wasteland .
	

    Stephen Weeks
	

    VLORE , Albania 1996-04-01
	

    Shops , bars and cafes have been looted on almost every street .
	

    The main bank has been burned , its blown-up safe dumped outside in the central square of this southern Albanian port .
	

    At_least one person is killed a day , usually by rival gangs settling scores or by accidents with an array of weapons looted from army barracks last month .
	

    Vlore , once Albania's bustling second port , is now a violent wasteland with the recently installed rebel Committee for Public Salvation struggling to keep the place afloat .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Vlore".]
	

    An Italian-led multinational security force is due_to be deployed in Vlore in the coming weeks to protect humanitarian supplies destined for its port .
	

    When troops hit the picturesque Adriatic coast , they will find a bleak and dreary place , which once had 75,000 residents , in utter disarray .
	

    Vlore spearheaded a nationwide revolt against President Sali Berisha after a string of fraudulent investment schemes failed in January , wiping out millions of dollars in savings .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Berisha".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Berisha".]
	

    Residents of the port , where Albania declared independence from Ottoman rule in 1912 , rioted against Berisha in February , stripping police and expelling them from the town .
	

    Things have not been the same since .
	

    "_ We have nothing left .
	

    All the structures and institutions of a town have collapsed , _" said Thanas Laluci , an economist on the rebel council .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Laluci" - it is important that Laluci is speaking here.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Laluci" - it is important that Laluci is speaking here.]
	

    Dozens of cars stripped clean to their chassis rest in the middle of dirty streets .
	

    Mounds of dirt , blocks of concrete and piles of boulders sit in pot-holed roads .
	

    Streams of garbage fester everywhere .
	

    Seaside restaurants and bars have been vandalised : windows shattered , furniture stolen and appliances carried off .
	

    Berisha's three-storey presidential villa overlooking the sea has been cleaned out and trashed .
	

    Windows , light sockets , tiles and marble stairs have been stolen .
	

    Even the lift is gone .
	

    The villa was first ransacked in February but this week a crew of six thieves were still working over the gutted shell , casually uprooting palm trees and other plants .
	

    They dug up 10-metre ( yard ) sections of water and drainage pipe and ripped out electrical cable inside walls .
	

    Even tiles in the empty swimming pool were being collected .
	

    The ornate town hall was also sacked and burned by rioters in February so the rebel council meets in the Ali Demi High School , named after a World War Two resistance hero .
	

    While Laluci talks a rowdy argument among several people can be heard in a classroom .
	

    The rest of the rebel council is debating a new mayor and regional prefect .
	

    "_ For two months we have had no supplies of food , equipment or medicine by land or sea .
	

    Vlore has been the hardest hit town in the unrest .
	

    No one here has been paid , no pensions given , no money , nothing , _" said Laluci .
	

    Residents blame Berisha for their fate , which forced more than 13,000 Albanians to flee to Italy in unsafe boats in March alone .
	

    They blame him first for letting the unregulated "_ pyramid _" investment schemes flourish and then for allegedly "_ punishing _" Vlore after February's popular uprising .
	

    "_ Berisha lost his February confrontation with Vlore so he is using other methods now , terrorising us with criminal gangs , blocking ships from the port , agreeing with Italy that refugees must be sent back , _" said Laluci .
	

    The popularity of the Italian-led security force suffered a setback after a crowded refugee boat from Vlore collided with an Italian navy ship last week and sank .
	

    Tirana says more than 80 people drowned .
	

    Residents and the rebel council have declared the Italians virtually personae non gratae but Laluci said other security force members would be welcome .
	

    "_ The force is in our interest .
	

    It would reopen the port and break Berisha's embargo on our supplies , _" he said .
	

    Few people in Vlore are so positive about the plan .
	

    "_ It_ 's a plot by Berisha and Italy .
	

    The food and medicine are to get us facing in the right direction and the security force is a knife in our back to keep us here , _" Gjergji Greni , 34 , said .
