 CANADA : NHL ICE HOCKEY-DALLAS BEATS VANCOUVER .
NHL ICE HOCKEY-DALLAS BEATS VANCOUVER .
	

     VANCOUVER 1997-03-30
	

     Jere Lehtinen had the go-ahead goal and an assist as the Dallas Stars extended their unbeaten streak to nine games and damaged Vancover's playoff chances with a 3-2 victory over the Canucks on Sunday .
	

     Former Canuck Greg Adams added an insurance tally in the third period for the Stars , who are 7-0-2 since March 1st , their longest unbeaten streak since they went a franchise-record 12 games without a loss in 1981-82 .
	

     Dallas is 20-6-3 since the All-Star break and leads second-place Detroit by nine points in the Central Division .
	

     Trevor Linden and David Roberts scored for Vancouver .
	

     At New Jersey , Bill Guerin and Scott Stevens scored in a 44-second span of the first period as the New Jersey Devils coasted to a 5-2 victory over the Los Angeles Kings .
	

     Guerin scored two of New Jersey's four first-period goals , and Scott Stevens had a goal and two assists .
	

     The Devils improved to 7-2-1 in their last 10 games .
	

     Mike Dunham made 22 saves for the Devils , whose 46 points since the All-Star break are tops in the conference .
	

     Kevin Stevens and Glen Murray scored for Los Angeles .
	

     In Chicago , Ulf Dahlen scored his first goal in six weeks with 16:02 left in the third period , giving the Chicago Blackhawks a 3-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres , who lost their fourth straight game .
	

     Jeff Hackett made 25 saves for Chicago .
	

     Donald Audette and Richard Smehlik scored for the Sabres .
	

     In Detroit , Steve Rucchin scored off a rebound at 3:41 of overtime , and Mikhail Shtalenkov recorded his second shutout of the season as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim blanked the Red Wings , 1-0 .
	

     "_ I thought we had our legs tonight and it surprised me , _" said Anaheim coach Ron Wilson .
	

     "_ We pressured the puck well , all_over the place , and did a great job getting in front of them and making them take some indirect routes . _"
	

     Mike Vernon finished with 30 saves for Detroit , which had its eight-game home unbeaten streak snapped .
	

     "_ He kept is in the game , _" Red Wings coach Scotty Bowman said of his goalie . "_ I thought they had better chances than we did . _"
	
     In St Louis , Joe Murphy's goal early in the third period put St. Louis ahead and Grant Fuhr made it stand up as the Blues improved their playoffs chances with a 3-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers .
	
     Philadelphia defenceman Petr Svoboda coughed the puck up in his own zone and Murphy sent a wrist shot from the inside edge of the right faceoff circle under sliding goaltender Ron Hextall with 17:17 remaining to break a 2-2 tie .
	
Craig MacTavish won three faceoffs down the stretch to preserve the win .
	
	