    SOUTH KOREA : S.Korea Kim's aides deny taking bribes from Hanbo .
	

    S.Korea Kim's aides deny taking bribes from Hanbo .
	

    SEOUL 1997-03-31
	

    A former minister and three close aides to South Korean President Kim Young-sam on Monday admitted receiving money from the founder of the insolvent Hanbo Group , but denied taking bribes .

	

    On the second day of their trial , former minister Kim Woo-suk said he thought the 200 million won ( $223,000 ) delivered in apple crates was just a gift from Chung Tae-soo to use as political funds .
	

    "_ I received the money from Chung Tae-soo but I thought it was simply a donation to political funds , _" Kim told the court . "_ But it was wrong of me to take the money considering I was a construction minister at the time . _"
	

    He is charged with receiving bribes in return for setting up roads leading to Hanbo's steel mills .
	

    Hanbo Steel Co , South Korea's second-biggest steel maker and flagship of the Hanbo Group , collapsed in January after racking up $5.8 billion in largely unsecured loans .
	

    Three ruling party legislators and close aides to President Kim , Hong In-gil , Hwang Byung-tai and Chung Jae-chull also admitted receiving from gifts in cash from the Hanbo founder .
	

    But they denied allegations they were bribed .
	

    Chung Tae-soo , his chief accountant , an opposition legislator and three top bankers are also on trial .
	

    Among the bankers in custody , Sheen Kwang-shik , the former president of Korea First Bank , Hanbo's main creditor , said he received his first apple crate of 200 million won when he became head of the bank .
	

    Having received it the first time , Sheen said it was difficult to turn it down the second time .
	

    Sheen said he tried in vain to return the cash but eventually used it for his daughter's wedding .
	

    The eight defendants accused of receiving bribes gave similar testimony , describing the money they received as gifts .
	

    Chung Tae-soo's questioning was postponed to April 14 when the court reconvenes .
	

    His testimony is eagerly awaited in the hope that he will divulge the top influence peddlers who helped him win massive loans .
	

    The prosecution reopened the Hanbo investigation almost 10 days ago after opposition politicians dismissed it as a whitewash , in which major players emerged unscathed .
	

    Over the weekend , the prosecution said it had uncovered evidence that Chung embezzled an additional 30 billion won in cash .
	

    His son , Chung Bo-keun , was also arrested on Friday accused of pocketing about 37 billion won .
	

    The prosecution said they would seize the Chung family's assets to pay off previously evaded taxes of 432.7 billion won and "_ end the bad practice of the past when businessmen survived even when their businesses collapsed _" .
	

    ( $1_=_897 won )
