	
The Annual Human Rights Report of the US State Department has been strongly criticized and condemned by many countries. Though the report has been made public for 10 days, its contents, which are inaccurate and lacking good will, continue to be commented on by the world media. 
	
	
 Many countries in Asia, Europe, Africa, and Latin America have rejected the content of the US Human Rights Report, calling it a brazen distortion of the situation, a wrongful and illegitimate move, and an interference in the internal affairs of other countries. 
	
	
 Recently, the Information Office of the Chinese People's Congress released a report on human rights in the United States in 2001, criticizing violations of human rights there. The report quoting data from the Christian Science Monitor, points out that the murder rate in the United States is 5.5 per 100,000 people. In the United States, torture and pressure to confess crime is common. Many people have been sentenced to death for crime they did not commit as a result of an unjust legal system. More than 12 million children are living below the poverty line. According to the report, one American woman is beaten every 15 seconds. Evidence show that human rights violations in the United States have been ignored for many years. 
	
	
 These facts are well understood by the US Administration as human rights violations take place every day. The United States has been preparing annual reports on human rights in 190 countries for 25 years while ignoring the real situation at home. World analysts remarked that the US evaluation of the practice of human rights in other countries depends on the level of political relations between the United States and those countries. 
	
	
 This year, the US report devotes many pages to commenting on human rights in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Iraq. The US judgment of the practice of human rights depends on US interests as well. The British News Agency Reuters remarked that in the 2000 human rights report, the United States criticized Egypt for trying suspected terrorists in military courts. However, such a criticism is absent in the 2001 human rights report as the United States is planning to try the al-Qa'ida and Taliban detainees in military courts while refusing to grant them POW status. 
	
	
 It is clear that the United States pays no attention to fundamental human rights unless they serve its political purpose. In light of the United States' malicious goals, its Annual Human Rights Report for 2001 is facing strong protest and criticism from the world. Many Americans have given evidence to prove the wrong judgment of their administration against human rights in other countries, especially in Vietnam. The Washington Times last weekend carried an article by Andrew Welsdan, a representative of the US Fund for Reconciliation and Development, rejecting the report's allegation of human rights in Vietnam. The article stressed that people in Vietnam are free to practice any religion, whether they are buddhists, catholics, or protestants. 
	
	
 The Annual Human Rights Report released by the US State Department is not convincing as it is inaccurate and fabricated.	




