USA : INTERVIEW $- Spyglass device profit seen later .
	

    INTERVIEW $- Spyglass device profit seen later .
	

    Susan Nadeau
	

    NAPERVILLE , Ill. 1997-03-31
	

    Spyglass Inc said Monday its move to link devices other than personal computers to the Internet is continuing on target , but its return to profitability will likely come later than originally expected .
	

    "_ We felt '97 and '98 would be years that we would actually invest in the business , and then we believe thereafter we will return to profitability , _" Spyglass chief executive Doug Colbeth said in an interview .
     Comments: this is speech, but i think it it more essential to a summary of te text than other parts which aren't speech.
	

    Spyglass said last December it expected to post a loss in the first two quarters of its fiscal 1997 , which began October 1 , 1996 , before returning to profitability in the second half .
	

    In January of this year , chief financial officer Gary Vilchick told analysts he saw a return to "_ historical _" profitability in late 1997 or early 1998 .
	

    Spyglass is striving to connect a wide range of "_ devices _" to the Internet $-- everything from gas pumps to vending machines to cellular phones .
	

    A vending machine company , for_example , would be able to keep tabs from headquarters on the stocks in all its machines .
	

    A cellphone user could check his e-mail from the car .
	

    Although the company has already announced major contracts such as a recent deal signed with Xerox Corp , the licensing revenues may take longer to come in , Spyglass said .
	

    The company said it will spend about $12 million this year on research and development , up from $6.8 million in 1996 .
     Comments: would usually omit "the company said", but i think it is important to know that the company is claiming this, and not anyone else.
	

    "_ There is no doubt we have our focus 100 percent on the device market today , _" Colbeth said .
	

    The company said its profitability projections may be conservative , but as the market is young it is still difficult to identify when licensing revenues will begin to come in .
     Comments: again, it is important that this claim is being made by the company.
	

    Colbeth declined to comment on analysts' specific estimates .
	

    According_to First Call , the consensus estimate for Spyglass's fiscal 1997 is a loss of $0.15 a share , and for fiscal 1998 a loss of $0.16 a share .
	

    The company reported a profit of $0.27 a share for fiscal 1996 ended September 30 .
	

    "_ It really feels like things are progressing along like what we said in October , and we do_ n't see any tremendous variance off that , but remember , this is a very new market , _" Colbeth said at the Spyglass headquarters in Naperville , outside of Chicago .
	

    Spyglass has three main business categories $-- connectivity products , infrastructure and professional services $-- and various new products were recently launched .
	

    Spyglass said its professional services division , which makes the software work on a customer's particular device , is expected to account for 30 percent of its business .
	

    The division already makes up 20 percent after two quarters in existence .
	

    Colbeth said Spyglass is the leader in embedded technology but keeps a close eye on the rear-view mirror , especially on Microsoft Corp and Cisco Systems Inc .
	

    "_ We do believe there will be 10 or 15 companies starting up , and we have tremendous respect for that , _" Colbeth said . "_ What we focus on more is what is Microsoft doing , what is Cisco doing , because they want to build the infrastructure as well . _"
	

    Nonetheless , Colbeth said he is convinced companies will continue to connect everything using Internet technology , as it is much more cost-effective to maintain information and systems using one format .
	

    "_ I do_ n't ever worry that 10 years from now we_ 'll look back and there are no devices connected , _" Colbeth said . "_ They will be connected , and I just want to make sure it_ 's our technology inside and I want to make sure the infrastructure is strong enough for devices . _"
	

    ( ( $-- Chicago newsdesk , 312-408-8787 ) )
