
Paratroopers return Chavez to power

 



  
Once again, events in Venezuela have drawn the close attention 
of the world's media. Hardly had observers even time to get used 
to the news that Hugo Chavez had lost his presidential post, and 
then he returned to power. There were already several 
suppositions that Hugo Chavez may recover the position, but 
nobody could suppose the recovery would be so quick.

  The ousted president was freed by paratroopers. Chavez himself 
used to be in command of a paratrooper unit. He has been 
patronizing his subordinates during his entire presidency and 
was finally rewarded for his support: the paratroopers helped 
him regain power. Protesters, who ousted Hugo Chavez at the end 
of the previous week, failed to gain the support of the army. 
The majority of the population, who was not delighted with 
Chavez, was not on their side as well. Ordinary Venezuelans are 
even less happy with the generals and local oligarchic elite. 
Indeed, it was clear since the very beginning that Pedro 
Carmona, who proclaimed himself interim president would care 
very little for improving ordinary people's lives. The planners 
committed one more mistake when they dissolved the National 
Assembly and Supreme Court right after the coup. Carmona and 
other generals who participated in the coup are now being 
questioned by public prosecutors.

  Hugo Chavez is not the formal president yet, as he had to resign 
under the pressure of the plotters. Vice-president Diosdado 
Cabello, a Hugo Chavez supporter, is acting president as of now. 
Hugo Chavez is very likely to be soon return to the post of 
president of Venezuela.

  Chavez supporters say that no witch-hunting will follow and the 
opposition should not be afraid of persecution. At the same, the 
Venezuela government declared that participants of the coup will 
be brought to trial.

  Vice-president Diosdado Cabello believes that the Venezuelan 
coup was thoroughly planned beforehand. He showed journalists 
proof of his statement: a president's belt, a symbol of power 
that did not belong to Hugo Chavez. The belt had been especially 
manufactured in Spain and was later left in the Miraflores 
presidential palace by the plotters.

  Chavez says that he has learnt a lesson from the events, and he 
will be more attentive to the opposition's opinion in the 
future.

  It is hard to forecast the further development of the events in 
Venezuela. Hugo Chavez managed to demonstrate astonishing 
political resistance. There is no doubt that he will dismiss 
disloyal top officers from the army. Venezuelan paratroopers are 
evidently to profit from the situation. As for ordinary 
Venezuelans, they seem to be slightly anxious about the struggle 
for the presidential post. Neither supporters nor opponents of 
Chavez could be seen in the streets during the days of the coup. 
What reforms will be initiated by Hugo Chavez next? Time will 
tell if the president has really learnt a lesson from the 
situation.

  
Oleg Artyukov


Copyright @1999 by " Pravda.RU ". When reproducing our materials 
in whole or in part, reference to Pravda.RU should be made. The 
opinions and views of the authors do not always coinside with 
the point of view of PRAVDA.Ru's editors.

