	
President Hugo Chavez has warned that certain sectors have once again taken up the idea of looking forceful way out in Venezuela, either through a coup or an attack that would end his life. He added that for that purpose they are seeking someone in the FAN [National Armed Forces] who could assume power in Venezuela. 
	
	
 "Since they have realized that this train is not stopping and that they are not going to stop it or run it off the track, ideas about destabilization have once again surfaced. Once again, ideas that Chavez has to be killed, that four shots would solve the problem, have emerged. It is a futile illusion because it is a lie. Even if such a thing were to happen, it would not solve the problem," the president said during his year-end message to the Vargas and Caracas garrisons, speaking from the Caracas Poliedro. 
	
	
 Chavez added that "they are going around looking for a Pinochet, analyzing man by man to see who could be the Pinochet that they could pit against Chavez, and I am sure that there is no Pinochet in the FAN. I would venture to assure you that," he said. 
	
	
 The president charged that attacks targeting his person have gone on for over 10 years, and that he has been accused, among other things, of ties with the guerrillas, of buying arms and trying to set up a communist regime in Venezuela. He added that he would not find it at all strange if, at some time or other, they even managed to connect him with the terrorist Usama Bin Ladin, because he is sure that his opponents will use any strategy to try to discredit him. 
	
	
 Chavez said that more efforts would be made in 2002 to get the country moving ahead since he believes that it will be quite difficult politically, economically and socially. He noted that as the year draws to a close, the indicators are positive for Venezuela, then emphasized that the country has regained such internationally recognized posts as the presidency of the Group of the 15 and the Group of the 77. 
	
	
 The president complained about the mass media, accusing them of reporting whatever suits them. He pointed out that his annoyance does not extend to the journalists, but is directed at the owners of newspapers and radio and television broadcasting stations. 
	
	
 As for Argentina's decision not to pay its debt, the president said the measure would give the economy and people some breathing room. He wished the new Argentine Government good luck and is confident that it will get the country moving forward. 
	
	
 Chavez recalled that only a few years ago, Argentina was depicted as the model to follow. Now, however, the situation has reversed negatively as a result of the neoliberal policy to which he is opposed. He said that Venezuela was led away from that path because the same thing would have happened here. 
	
	
 The chief of state also recalled that the previous governments viewed the Colombian guerrillas as enemies of Venezuela, which led to operations in Colombian territory to attack the rebel groups. In his opinion, this was a serious error that resulted in victims and loss of Venezuelan lives because we were meddling directly in an internal conflict in Colombia." [quotation marks as published] 
	
	
 "We were meddling in an internal conflict of another country, which is a violation of international law and which in turn gave the guerrillas the right to attack our military units." 
	
	
	


