    Bulgaria starts stabilisation plan for Biohim Bank .
	

    SOFIA 1997-03-31
	

    Bulgaria's cabinet on Monday approved a $50 million stabilisation plan for state Biochim bank in line with pledges made to international lenders to stabilise ailing banks , the government's press centre said .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the link for "the stabilisation plan"]
	

    "_ Bulbank would open a credit line to provide $50 million to the government for the stabilisation of Biochim Bank and the government is to begin talks with foreign banks for Biochim Bank's management , _" the press centre said .
	

    Biochim has a two-year twinning agreement for technical advice with the Dutch ABN Amro Bank signed last year .
	

    Under the stabilisation plan the Finance Ministry would issue $50 million of 18-month T-notes , which will be bought out by Bulbank , Bulgaria's biggest and most stable state-owned bank .
     Link: [Comments: this isn't really an explicit link, but the occurrence of "then" in s2 implies we know something linked to this has previously been mentioned.]
	

    The funds will be used boost Biochim's liquidity .
	

    The issue is to be backed through proceeds from future privatisation deals and would bear a semi-annual coupon pegged to the LIBOR , Bulbank's chief executive director Chavdar Kanchev said earlier this month .
	

    The principal would be redeemed at maturity .
	

    The operation would also involve a buy-back of $50 million worth of dollar-denominated domestic bad debt ( ZUNK ) bonds from the Biochim Bank's portfolio by the ministry .
	

    Biochim Bank would then buy bad debt bonds from the central bank's portfolio well below their minimum acceptable price with part of the money and possibly resell them later at a higher price to boost its capital , a finance ministry official said .
	

    The minimum acceptable price of domestic dollar-denominated bad debt bonds is now set at 45 percent of par .
	

    Biochim Bank is the only operating local state bank with a negative capital net worth and suffers a serious liquidity shortage that needs to be compensated from the budget and the central bank , bankers said .
	

    Biochim Bank had a capital-to-risk assets ratio of five percent at the end of last year after it managed to collect some risk loans and received long-term government securities worth $81 million to boost its capital .
	

    Biochim Bank was set up through a merger of three smaller institutions in 1995 .
	

    The Bank Consolidation Company , which manages state equity in local commercial banks , holds over 98 percent of Biochim Bank's share capital .
	

    Under a funding agreement with the International Monetary Fund sealed two weeks ago Bulgaria is to act immediately to stabilise Biochim Bank and other state banks before the IMF board meeting in the second week of April is expected to approve a $510 million stand-by facility .
	

    Stabilising state banks by boosting their capital prior_to introduction of a restrictive monetary mechanism is seen as an alternative to new bank closures by the caretaker cabinet .
	

    Under the accord with the IMF Bulgaria is to introduce in June a tough fixed exchange rate mechanism , known as currency board , to restore confidence in the crumbling financial system .
	

    $-- Sofia Newsroom , ( ++359-2 ) 981 8569 ; 981 4145
