ALBANIA : Italy presses on with security force for Albania .
	

    Italy presses on with security force for Albania .
	

    Stephen Weeks
	

    TIRANA 1996-04-01
	

    Italy on Tuesday pressed on with preparing a multinational security force to deploy in lawless Albania and tried to ease strained relations by calling for a joint Rome-Tirana inquiry into the sinking of a refugee boat .
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "this" in s2. Also for "deployment" and "the ill-fated refugees". Also "survivors". Also "the incident", "the tragedy", "the mission".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "this" in s2. Also for "deployment" and "the ill-fated refugees". Also "survivors". Also "the incident", "the tragedy", "the mission".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "this" in s2. Also for "deployment" and "the ill-fated refugees". Also "survivors". Also "the incident", "the tragedy", "the mission".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "this" in s2. Also for "deployment" and "the ill-fated refugees". Also "survivors". Also "the incident", "the tragedy", "the mission".]
	

    "_ The government wants to clear this up completely $...
     Comments: this sentence, whilst not important enough to be marked in its own right, has to be included to provide the referent for "Prodi" in a later marked sentence.
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Prodi" in s2.]
	

    so that no shadow of a doubt remains , _" Prime Minister Romano Prodi told reporters .
     Comments: this sentence, whilst not important enough to be marked in its own right, has to be included to provide the referent for "Prodi" in a later marked sentence.
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Prodi" in s2.]
	

    "_ I am in favour of a bilateral Italo-Albanian effort to clarify thoroughly the facts . _"
	

    Grief and anger throughout Albania cast a shadow over Italy's plan to lead a force of about 2,500 troops or police to protect deliveries of food and medicines in the Balkan state , which has been racked by armed unrest for three months .
	

    One key point of deployment is Vlore , the Adriatic port where the ill-fated refugees set out on Friday .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "the town]
	

    Residents in the town have vowed revenge if Italian troops arrive .
	

    More than 80 Albanians were feared drowned in a collision between their boat and an Italian navy ship .
	

    Four bodies were recovered and 34 people rescued .
	

    Italy has ruled out finding anyone_else alive .
	

    Survivors accused the Italian navy of ramming their vessel to stem a flood of refugees after about 13,000 fled across the Adriatic in March .
	

    Italy says those leaving now are fleeing for economic reasons and do not qualify for political asylum .
	

    Prodi said that the incident must not be allowed to taint previously close ties and his government has insisted that the tragedy makes the mission ever more urgent to stem a tide of refugees .
	

    Rome , with U.N. backing , will lead the force which will secure Tirana airport , the ports of Vlore and Durres and protect relief convoys around the country of 3.4 million people .
	

    Greece will contribute about 700 soldiers , Spain 500 and Romania 400 .
	

    France , Portugal , Austria and Turkey have also expressed willingness to take part .
	

    In Washington , the United States said it would not take part in the multinational force but would consider requests to support it .
	

    Much of southern Albania is in rebel hands after violent protests against the collapse of popular savings schemes this year turned into open insurrection .
	

    Looting is rife and most foreign nationals have been evacuated from Albania .
	

    Dutch diplomat Jan de Marchant et d'Ansembourg , the head of a European Union mission planning aid and security for Albania , said advance units were not likely before the end of the week .
	

    Reports of random violence , mostly by outlaw gangs , resumed around the country after an Easter holiday lull at the weekend .
	

    A rebel-held army munitions depot was in flames near the southern town of Gjirokaster and explosions could be heard in the town three kms ( two miles ) away , witnesses said .
	

    The shops of the Vefa investment company , often associated with the failed pyramid schemes , were looted in the southern town of Berat .
	

    Government-controlled police units tried to return to Berat but were chased out again over the weekend by armed gangs .
	

    The state ATA news agency said the town was still gripped by fear , with residents defending the apartment blocks at night .
