Enhancements enable up to 500,000 users on a common UC platform; new mobility and federation capabilities extend reach of UC beyond the walls of the enterprise

Extending its leadership in unified communications (UC), Siemens Enterprise Communications today announced the latest version of its OpenScape UC Suite, providing new, industry-leading scalability, mobility and federation, and improving public and private cloud capabilities and user experience.

The new OpenScape UC Suite can now efficiently provide a single UC domain for organizations ranging from 100 to 500,000 users, enabling the highest level of productivity and collaboration for workers across the campus or around the world. It also provides economies of scale in public and private cloud deployments, creating a unified user experience for presence, messaging, contacts and directories in large multi-site, multi-vendor organizations. Massively-scaled global UC deployments are now supported with up to 40,000 UC users per cluster and up to 500,000 UC users per system.

As noted in a newly released Siemens Enterprise Communications sponsored State of Enterprise Communications 2012 global study, 80 percent of user end-points are now outside of corporate headquarters, further affirming the trend toward distributed and mobile workforces. OpenScape UC Suite now addresses this need with new OpenScape Mobile clients for Apple iOS and Android. These new clients bring comprehensive VoIP and UC functionality, along with unique gesture-driven capabilities, to smart phones and tablets. These mobile clients are app store ready, providing choice and flexibility to users while supporting the growing “bring your device to work” trend.

“The ability to collaborate is becoming a prevailing requirement for mobile personnel, so IT support for the use of leading smart phones and tablets is very relevant,” said Jay Lassman, Research Director, Gartner, a leading analyst firm. “This approach not only enables broader use of the enterprise communications network, but also aligns with the growing desire among people who are already using a preferred mobile device.”

The new OpenScape UC Suite also enables users to share their presence availability and exchange instant messages with users of Google or any XMPP-capable solution, including UC, messaging, social media and collaboration applications, whether on a PC client, tablet or smart phone. These enhancements are built into OpenScape UC Suite at no additional charge, and enable organizations to create faster, more seamless, collaborative experiences between their employees and outside the walls of the enterprise, improving responsiveness, time to market, and customer service.

This release of the OpenScape UC Suite also delivers over 100 other updates including:

    OpenScape UC Application improvements such as new video capabilities including active speaker indication and video availability on OpenStage 60/80 devices, and enhanced Fusion integration
    OpenScape Web Collaboration now includes a new Mac OS client and a Microsoft Outlook plug-in
    OpenScape Voice and Management Suite improvements such as enhanced contact center integrated call recording capabilities and simplified deployments with pre-configured SIP Service Provider profiles, VMWare readiness and ‘zero touch’ cloud deployment capabilities to auto recognize and configure phones from the cloud
    OpenScape Branch and Session Border Controller enhancements to provide remote servicing capabilities and greater scalability


“Our customers include some of the largest organizations in the world and they need the productivity and collaboration benefits of unified communications the most - inside their walls, within their extended organizations and while mobile,” said Chris Hummel, CMO and President, North America, Siemens Enterprise Communications. “OpenScape UC Suite is unique in the industry for its ability to provide UC to extended organizations of all sizes and to deliver a consistent UC experience on the user’s device of choice.”

Availability
The new OpenScape UC Suite will be available in June 2012.
