
   Fate of 'detainees' hangs on US wording


 



  PARIS - The future of the Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters being 
held in Cuba is as unclear as the view through the darkened 
goggles they were made to wear when they stepped off the plane 
at the US military base in Guantanamo Bay.

  Already, Washington's refusal to grant them official 
prisoner-of- war status has sparked protests from human rights 
groups, and a disagreement with the International Committee of 
the Red Cross (ICRC), which oversees the Geneva Conventions. But 
for the US, the POW designation has little to do with steel 
manacles or open-air cells. Rather, it appears to be 
sidestepping the conventions in order to craft an unusual legal 
strategy that will enable it to try Al Qaeda suspects in special 
US military tribunals.

  Fifty men are currently being held in Guantanamo, in 
six-by-eight foot concrete-floored cells, with wooden roofs and 
chainlink fence "walls" that leave them open to the elements. US 
military engineers are preparing to build up to 2,000 such 
cells, if necessary; more than 400 prisoners are still being 
held in Afghanistan.

  Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told re- porters that "we do 
plan to, for the most part, treat them in a manner that is 
reasonably consistent with the Geneva Conventions, to the extent 
that they are appropriate."

  But he was careful to refer to the prisoners as "unlawful 
combatants" or "battlefield detainees," not prisoners of war. 
That description severely reduces the rights that the men would 
have as POWs under the Geneva Conventions, and prompted a 
rebuttal from the International Red Cross.

  "We say they should be presumed to be POWs, and it is not up to 
the ICRC or to the US military authorities to decide, but up to 
the courts," said Michael Kleiner, an ICRC spokesman.

  He recalled that a US court determined that former Panamanian 
strongman Manuel Noriega was a POW, despite the government's 
refusal to classify him as such following his capture. The issue 
goes to the heart of the US administration's hopes of 
prosecuting Al Qaeda leaders suspected of involvement in 
terrorist attacks against US targets. Under the third Geneva 
Convention, prisoners of war may only be tried in the same 
courts and according to the same rules, as soldiers of the 
country that is holding the prisoners. That means the Al Qaeda 
suspects could not be tried in the special military tribunals 
whose rules are currently being worked out, but only by regular 
US military courts using the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
That would give the prisoners the right to a three-tier appeal 
system reaching possibly to the Supreme Court.

  "This is one reason why the Americans are nervous about applying 
the POW convention in all its glory," says Adam Roberts, an 
expert on international law at Oxford University in England, and 
editor of "Documents on the Laws of War."

  US Attorney General John Ashcroft said Tuesday that the 
administration would seek criminal charges in a civil court 
against the American Taliban prisoner John Walker Lindh, rather 
than send him to a military tribunal. Mr. Ashcroft said he would 
not face the death penalty.

  US officials say that the foreign prisoners captured in 
Afghanistan are not covered by the third Geneva Convention 
because they were "bands of people that I don't think would meet 
the criteria of organized military activity," as Pentagon 
spokeswoman Susan Hanson put it.

  The Pentagon has also stressed that the prisoners are being well 
treated, given three "culturally appropriate meals" a day, and 
the opportunity to shower, exercise, and receive medical 
attention.

  Human rights organizations, however, have raised questions about 
the prisoners' housing conditions, which according to the Geneva 
Convention should be the same standard of those enjoyed by their 
guards.

  "If US POWs were ever kept under these conditions, the United 
States would complain, and rightly so," says James Ross, a 
senior legal adviser with the New York-based Human Rights Watch. 
The ICRC is to send a team to Guantanamo by the end of this 
week, US officials have said, to inspect Camp X-Ray.

  Meanwhile Pentagon legal experts are currently working on a 
procedure to decide on the prisoners' fate. US policy towards 
them "is a new construct of the new military situation we find 
ourselves in," dealing with irregular forces from a variety of 
countries who are suspected of terrorism rather than traditional 
war crimes, Ms. Hanson says.

  Little is clear, however. "There are a bunch of lawyers who are 
looking at all these treaties and conventions and everything, 
trying to figure out what is appropriate," Mr. Rumsfeld told 
reporters last week.

  "They are a bit of a tangle, these people," says Prof. Roberts. 
Under the Geneva Conventions, POWs must be returned home at the 
end of the war. But Saudi or Egyptian detainees, for example, 
could face mistreatment at the hands of their governments, which 
means Washington would be forbidden by international law to hand 
them over.

  It is also unclear what would constitute an end to the war on 
terrorism. And if some individuals were found to be a continued 
danger, the US authorities would be reluctant to release them.

  "I don't think anything quite like this was envisioned when the 
Geneva Conventions were drawn up," says Tom Farer, dean of 
Denver University's Graduate School of International Studies and 
a former special assistant to the Defense Department's special 
counsel.

  "What is worrying," adds Prof. Roberts, "is that by calling 
these people 'battlefield detainees', the United States seems to 
be creating a legal limbo where it is not clear what the legal 
standards are."

  
back to top

  
Untitled


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.

