JAPAN : Japan carmakers weather palladium market turmoil .
	

    Japan carmakers weather palladium market turmoil .
	

    Keiko Takagi
	

    TOKYO 1997-03-31
	

    Japan's carmakers are weathering turmoil in the palladium market , including a halt in Russian shipments to Japan and volatile prices , without major changes in their purchasing practices , industry sources say .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "they". Usually, I would have marked "industry sources say" in s1 as to be removed, but here it is vital for the next sentence to make sense.]
	

    They also saw few reasons at this stage why the recent difficulties should lead carmakers to reduce the amount of palladium they use in automobile engines .
	

    Palladium and other platinum group metals are used to make key components for catalytic converters , used in car and truck engines to clean exhaust emissions .
	

    "_ There has been no major shift in our purchasing patterns so_far , _" said a purchasing manager at Toyota Tsusho Corp , trading arm of the Toyota Motor Corp group .
	

    "_ Palladium prices are still relatively low and we are not overly concerned about the Russian situation , as we expect Russia to resume platinum group metal exports before long , _" he added .
	

    He also said the company has other sources of platinum group metals besides Russia .
	

    Russian supplies of platinum group metals to Japan have been on hold since the start of the year , when export contracts for 1996 expired and the Russian side indefinitely postponed talks on this year's contracts due_to domestic budget wrangling .
	

    Japanese traders said on Monday they still had not heard from the Russian export agency as_to when talks might be held .
	

    Japan is the world's leading consumer of palladium and platinum and Russia is the world's largest palladium supplier .
	

    A spokesman for Honda Motor Corp said his company had already secured the palladium supplies it needs for the next six months through a contract with a Japanese trade house .
	

    Japanese trade houses have scrambled in recent months to cover the palladium lost from Russian contracts by buying in the spot market .
	

    This buying helped push palladium prices above $160 an ounce in mid-March for the first time in 1-1/2 years , compared with $120 to $125 in January .
	

    Prices have since retreated to about $145 .
	

    A purchasing manager at Nissan Motor Co said , however , that she did not feel the palladium market was extremely tight at present , partly because most Japanese carmakers have long-term palladium supply contracts with South African mining houses .
     Comments: Although this sentence may seem to include irrelevant parts (mainly the first clause), the whole sentence is needed to make sense - you can't remove the first clause and have an acceptable sentence as there would be no referent for "she".
	

    She added that recent supply disruptions and price rises were unlikely in the near term to encourage carmakers to cut use of palladium in favour of other platinum group metals .
	

    Nissan has been the most aggressive of Japan's carmakers in switching to palladium-only or palladium-rich catalysts in its domestic cars , analysts said .
	

    "_ We are not mulling any changes in metals used in our auto catalysts at this stage , as changes to existing models would require huge expenditures and time for registration , _" the Nissan source said .
	

    "_ But in the future when new models are launched , a change is possible if the suspension of Russian supplies is prolonged , _" she added .
	

    In the longer term , she expected palladium use in Japanese cars to rise as the government tightens restrictions on car emissions .
	

    Palladium demand in Japan's automobile catalyst sector was 165,000 ounces in 1996 , or 7.8 percent of the nation's total palladium demand , compared with more than 800,000 ounces each in the automobile catalyst sectors in the United States and Europe , according_to a report by refiners Johnson Matthey Plc .
	

    $-- Tokyo Commodity Desk , +81-3-3432-7431
