USA : Lloyd's CEO questioned in recovery suit in U.S .
Lloyd's CEO questioned in recovery suit in U.S .
Lorrie Grant
RICHMOND , Va. 1996-08-20
Ronald Sandler , chief executive of Lloyd's of London , on Tuesday underwent a second day of court interrogation about the 300-year-old insurance market's multibillion-dollar recovery plan , which he defended as critical to Lloyd's solvency .
Sandler was questioned for four hours in a federal courtroom by lawyers for American investors in Lloyd's and by U.S. District Judge Robert Payne about Lloyd's complex restructuring plan to settle large losses .
Tens of thousands of investors in Lloyd's worldwide $-- quaintly known as Names $-- were anxiously awaiting the outcome of the case , in which 100 U.S. investors have applied for an injunction to block the recovery plan .
Under the rescue proposal , Lloyd's was to reinsure billions of dollars in liabilities , including pollution and asbestosis-related claims in the United States , in a new company called Equitas .
The proposal also includes a 3.2 billion pound ( $4.95 billion ) cash offer to the Names designed to offset the cost of Equitas .
The investors must vote on the plan by Aug. 28 .
The suit , which names 93 plaintiffs , seeks to block the plan until more detailed financial information is released .
It contends that Lloyd's has breached U.S. disclosure laws .
Sandler , as he did on Monday , said the plan was crucial to Lloyd's solvency .
Payne questioned Sandler for about an hour , asking about Lloyd's plans to pay its liabilities and what would happen if its investments made more money than was needed to pay off those liabilities .
"_ Most ( Lloyd's officials ) believe that some time over 30 years the liability will be extinguished , _" Sandler said , adding that any money left over would go to charities .
When asked by the judge who the benefactors would be , Sandler said he was not able to answer .
Payne told Sandler firmly that the company needed to have a plan for the disposition of leftover assets and that he would need to be told who the benefactors would be .
Payne also asked whether Lloyd's was able to pay the total premium if U.S. investors did not back the recovery plan .
Sandler again said he was unable to answer .
The proceedings resumed in the afternoon after a break for lunch .
Payne earlier criticised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for refusing to determine whether Lloyd's should be subject to U.S. securities laws .
The legal challenge was complicated on Friday by the SEC's neutral position on this issue .
Payne said the SEC would have a second opportunity to respond to his request for a ruling .
Separately Tuesday morning , Lloyd's received a boost from another court case in New York , which dismissed action brought against the market by four Names .
They had claimed that Lloyd's knew long_ago the extent of liabilities faced by Names .
"_ We are pleased by this decision .
Names entered into their commitments under U.K. law and we are pleased that U.S. courts continue to recognise this , _" said Lloyd's U.S. executive , Peter Lane .
	
	

