RUSSIA : Russian haste on Belarus union pact questioned .
	

    Russian haste on Belarus union pact questioned .
	

    Adam Tanner
	

    MOSCOW 1996-04-01
	

    A leading Russian newspaper on Tuesday questioned the Kremlin's haste in promoting without public debate a treaty creating a union with neighbouring Belarus , reflecting liberal concerns about the pact .
	

    "_ They are deciding the fate of Russia behind the backs of the people , _" liberal daily Izvestia said in the lead headline of its Tuesday editions . "_ Was it agreement or conspiracy prepared in the corridors of power ? _"
	

    Under the treaty , expected to be signed on Wednesday , the two ex-Soviet states would remain independent but coordinate their foreign , economic and military policies closely .
	

    An updated draft of the treaty obtained by Reuters on Monday night was confusing and left many questions unanswered .
	

    President Boris Yeltsin gave the green light to the treaty on Monday , and was expected to sign it on April 3 with his Belarus counterpart Alexander Lukashenko , Russian media reported .
     Comments: This sentence has to be included to provide the referent for "Lukashenko" in other marked sentences.
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Lukashenko". Also for further references to "Yeltsin".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Lukashenko". Also for further references to "Yeltsin".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Lukashenko". Also for further references to "Yeltsin".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "Lukashenko". Also for further references to "Yeltsin".]
	

    Russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a "_ community _" with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by the two leaders on April 2 last year .
	

    "_ There will be a union of two states rather then a single state , _" Valery Serov , Russia's deputy prime minister who co-authored the treaty , told a news conference .
	

    The potential transformation of Russia was rushed so quickly that even Yeltsin's allies complained about the lack of debate .
	

    "_ The government's mistake is that it has rather quickly and secretly worked out the agreement and presented it for ratification , _" Sergei Belyayev , a leader of the pro-government Russia's Choice fraction of parliament , told NTV commercial television .
	

    "_ That_ 's why there emerged more questions than answers . _"
	

    Even Serov's remarks suggested that Russians were confused about the most basic issues related to the treaty .
	

    "_ Some people are asking : '_ In what country will we wake up on April 3 ? _' , _" Serov said . "_ The answer is : In the very same country you went to bed . _"
	

    Russia's embrace of Belarus comes at a time of increasing international isolation for Minsk .
	

    In recent weeks Belarus has cracked down on political dissent , and last week ordered the expulsion of a U.S. diplomat .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "it" in s2.]
	

    It has also tried to limit foreign television reporting .
	

    Some Russian liberals said they fear the authoritarian Lukashenko , who has lagged far behind Moscow in economic reform , could gain a slice of power at the Kremlin's expense , posing questions about democracy , stability and human rights .
	

    Above_all , liberals fear Lukashenko could gain jurisdiction over some decisions affecting Russia under a nine-member Supreme Council which will oversee the Russia-Belarus union .
	

    However , previous accords on integration have had few practical implications .
	

    The latest plans are ambitious , speaking of a union with a joint legal system , joint running of energy , transport and communications systems and a common customs policy .
	

    It would also prepare for introducing a single currency .
	

    Yeltsin , 66 , believes forging better ties with Belarus is a sure political winner since many Russians are nostalgic for the Soviet Union which fell apart in 1991 .
	

    It could also deflect some attention from Russia's economic woes .
	

    But Kremlin sources said Russian officials haggled over the draft in last-minute talks late on Monday .
	

    They said liberals , led by first deputy prime ministers Anatoly Chubais and Boris Nemtsov , had tried to prevent Yeltsin's approval of the treaty and that divisions had opened in the government .
	

    "_ If the document needs corrections or more work , it_ 's better to do it without hurrying it , so that mistakes are not made , _" Nemtsov told NTV on Monday night .
