 USA : BASEBALL-INTERLEAGUE PLAY LEADS CHANGES ON TAP IN 1997 SEASON .
BASEBALL-INTERLEAGUE PLAY LEADS CHANGES ON TAP IN 1997 SEASON .
Larry Fine
NEW YORK 1997-03-31
Major League Baseball , which is dedicating the 1997 campaign to the anniversary of the most profound change in the game , launches a new season Tuesday full of fresh twists and challenges .
The World Series champion New York Yankees will play the New York Mets , and the Chicago Cubs will battle the Chicago White Sox this season in games that count as nearly 100 years of tradition dissolves with the advent of interleague play .
Purists are outraged .
Others are salivating at the propects of stirring up new rivalries and fleshing out what had been only a match-up fantasy of day-dreaming fans .
	
     It is fitting that this breaking down of barriers comes as baseball celebrates the greatest dream come true for the game $-- the smashing of the colour line 50 years ago by Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
	
     No_more wondering what great sluggers of the Negro League like Josh Gibson would do against major league pitchers , or how well a Satchel Paige could baffle big league hitters .
	
     The golden anniversary of Robinson's brave and brilliant debut , which obviously had societal ramifications that travelled well beyond the field , will be celebrated April 15 with President Clinton attending ceremonies during the game here between the Mets and the Los Angeles Dodgers .
	

     Nothing could compare with that bold stroke engineered by Dodgers' general manager Branch Rickey , but this season brings radical changes of its own .
	

     The labour peace that was finally reached after the crippling players' strike of 1994 brought about a salary cap agreement between the owners in addition to interleague play .
	
     In interleague play , the designated hitter will be used in American League parks and not in games played on National League ground .
	

     East Division teams meet their counterparts in the East , Central plays Central and West gets West in games that represent less than one-tenth of the 162-game schedule .
	
The salary cap taxes teams for spending over a limit .
	
This introduces new budget concerns for the big market teams that have the cash to sign premier free agents .
	
There was no let-up , however , in the roster roulette that has characterised the modern game .
	
Some of the most powerful teams made dramatic changes in preparation for the new season , while two hopefuls made sweeping moves to climb the ladder .
	
The Cleveland Indians and Atlanta Braves , who two years ago battled in the Series , made a mega-swap rooted in budget strategy as the Tribe sent Kenny Lofton , baseball's best leadoff man , to the Braves for their All-Star outfielder Marquis Grissom and oft-injured slugger David Justice .
	
That completed a busy off-season for Cleveland , who also brought on board Giants' masher Matt Williams to ease the loss of bad boy Albert Belle , who took his temper and awesome bat to Central Division rivals the Chicago White Sox .
	
The most improved National League team appears to be the Florida Marlins , who added White Sox ace Alex Fernandez , Baltimore slugger Bobby Bonilla and Expos outfielder Moises Alou to make life easier for new manager Jim Leyland .
Florida hopes its free-wheeling moves put heat on the perennial powerhouse Braves in the East .
	
 The St Louis Cardinals added speedy second baseman Delino DeShields to their attack and hope to hold off the Houston Astros in the weak Central Division .
	
The Astros , runners-up the last three seasons , are trying something different .
	
New manager Larry Dierker , a former big league pitcher turned Astros broadcaster , has never worked as a coach or manager before .
	
The West looms as a showdown between the Los Angeles Dodgers , who added hard-hitting third baseman Todd Zeile , and the San Diego Padres .
	
In the American League , the Toronto Blue Jays made the biggest splash in the off season by adding former Red Sox ace Roger Clemens to their formidable starting rotation .
	
Toronto also acquired National Leaguers Carlos Garcia ( second base ) , Orlando Merced ( outfield ) and Benito Santiago ( catcher ) and appear poised to contend with the Yankees and Baltimore Orioles in the East .
	
Baltimore's biggest change was internal , as iron man Cal Ripken yields his longstanding post at shortstop to Mike Bordick and takes charge at the hot corner that is third base .
The Yankees will hand over the closer's job to Mariano Rivera as last year's ace John Wetteland left for the Texas Rangers .
	
Otherwise the off-season was relatively quiet for the Bombers , who hired away Orioles lefty David Wells after New York lefty Jimmy Key signed with Baltimore .
	

In the West , the Seattle Mariners may have nudged ahead_of the Rangers by bolstering their pitching rotation with Jeff Fassero and Scott Sanders joining a now-healthy Randy Johnson .
	
In the Central Division , the muscular Indians look the best although the bullpen picture is cloudy given legal troubles hanging over the head of closer Jose Mesa .
	
 Meanwhile , Chicago's twinning of Belle and sweet-swinging slugger Frank Thomas in the middle of the line-up could deliver a new entry in the record books .
	
Thomas ( .349 , 40 homers , 134 RBI ) and Belle ( .311 , 48 homers , 148 RBI ) could threaten the record for most homers in a season by a pair of teammates .
Tops on the list is 115 by Roger Maris ( 61 ) and Mickey Mantle ( 54 ) of the 1961 Yanks .
	

Second is another famous Yankee duo $-- Babe Ruth ( 60 ) and Lou Gehrig ( 47 ) of the 1927 Bombers .
	
	