    Parallel lines to the future : Britain is among the front runners as tomorrow '_ s supercomputers take shape , says Greg Wilson
	

    By GREG WILSON
	

    FROM desk-top micros to the largest mainframes , conventional computers are built around a single processor and a single store of memory .
	

    This architecture was adopted because it was simple to build , fitted the theoretical preconceptions of early computer scientists , and seemed to offer the greatest reliability .
	

    At a seminar hosted by the Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project last month , researchers and vendors could finally say with confidence that supercomputing in the 1990s and beyond will be done by parallel computers .
	

    There are fundamental limits to how fast a conventional computer can go .
	

    Data can not be moved from the processor to the memory and back faster than a certain speed , which limits the performance of the computer as a whole .
	

    Another limitation is the extent to which components can be shrunk before quantum effects decrease their reliability .
	

    Faced with these problems , computer scientists began in the mid 1970s to experiment with using many processors in a single machine to work in parallel on a single problem .
	

    The advantage of this approach is that it can be scaled up_to build computers of any size and speed .
	

    There are practical difficulties with parallel computers .
	

    For one thing , builders had to solve the problems of making processors communicate with one_another quickly and reliably .
	

    More important was the software ?
	

    how should a parallel computer be programmed ?
	

    Would it be possible to re-use old programs written for conventional machines , or would users have to start from scratch and throw away their existing investment in software ?
	

    While some manufacturers advocated the latter , a more popular approach has been to build computers out_of conventional processors so that many current programs and , more importantly , programming concepts , can be recycled .
	

    There are now manufacturers world-wide pursuing variations on this approach , building everything from high-powered graphics work stations for computer-aided design and advertising , like soon-to-merge American firms Ardent and Stellar , through to Teradata , another American company which has sold several hundred of its parallel database machines , to Britain '_ s Meiko Scientific , manufacturer of the Computing Surface .
	

    Meiko was set up in 1985 by members of the group which developed the transputer chip for Inmos .
	

    The transputer contains a processor , memory , and communications links on a single chip , which makes it an ideal building block for multi-processor computers .
	

    More importantly , the transputer allows modular supercomputers to be built .
	

    When users want to improve the performance of their machine , they do not have to throw it away and buy a newer model .
	

    Instead , they can buy more processors and add them to the existing machine .
	

    The success of this approach can be judged by Meiko '_ s growth .
	

    From six members , the company has grown in less than four years to a staff of more than 90 , and a base of more than 200 installed systems .
	

    Only 27 per_cent of these are in academia ; the rest have gone to research ( 20 per_cent ) , the military ( 23 per_cent ) , the financial sector ( 11 per_cent ) , and direct industrial use ( 19 per_cent ) .
	

    Still owned by its employees , Meiko has broken into the American and Japanese supercomputer markets , and now has offices across the US and in Europe .
	

    The largest of its Computing Surface machines is at the University of Edinburgh .
	

    Faced with the loss of their previous high-performance computer in 1987 , the university got backing from the Science and Engineering Research Council and the Department of Trade and Industry to purchase a large Computing Surface to serve both as a research vehicle and a flagship site for Meiko .
	

    The Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project ( ECSP ) , under Professor David Wallace , now has the largest parallel computer in Europe , with 400 processors which can perform 400 million arithmetical calculations a second .
	

    The example of the installation at Edinburgh has led to several million dollars _' worth of business which , according_to Meiko , would have been much harder to obtain without a such a proof of cost-effectiveness .
	

    What this power has meant to the scientific and industrial users involved in the ECSP was made apparent during the project '_ s second annual seminar last month .
	

    Applications ranging from molecular sequencing ( an important tool in bio-engineering ) to modelling oil reservoirs , image processing and high-energy physics were described .
	

    Modern science is critically dependent on high-performance computing ; studies of the world '_ s changing climate , structural engineering , and medical imaging simply could not have progressed to their present state without access to the sort of computing power that can only be provided by parallel machines .
	

    Much funding for the ECSP has been raised from industry .
	

    Major industrial partners , like Shell , Hewlett-Packard , and Meiko itself have contributed both money and equipment to help the project to the point where it can offer a reliable multi-user service to people from all_over the UK .
	

    In exchange , ECSP has developed a pool of software and made these available to its sponsors .
	

    The keynote speaker at the seminar , Dr Paul Messina of the California Institute of Technology , emphasised that such developments are an international phenomenon .
	

    His group has been involved in parallel computing since the early 1980s ; software produced at CalTech has become a de_facto standard for the various & bquo ; hypercube & equo ; machines manufactured in the United States .
	

    He pointed out that every major supercomputer manufacturer , including such giants in the conventional supercomputer market as Cray , were now building multi-processor machines in_order_to stay competitive .
	

    Parallel computing has matured so much that users and manufacturers are beginning to discuss standardisation .
	

    Until_now , each parallel computer has been so different that users had to re-write applications every time they changed machines .
	

    Now that CalTech '_ s operating environment is being marketed commercially by Parasoft under the name Express , and with Meiko '_ s introduction of a machine-independent programming system called CS Tools , a single , uniform environment is becoming increasingly likely .
	

    The emergence of such standards , and the ability to re-use programs written in conventional languages , should bring down the last barriers to wide acceptance of parallel computing .
