
Six days that shook Venezuela

 





  CARACAS (AFP) - Here are the main events of the crisis that 
shook Venezuela over the past six days, in which at least 41 
people were killed and 323 were injured:

  Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike 
by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company, 
demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed 
by President Hugo Chavez.

  Wednesday, April 10: Union leaders extend the strike for 24 
hours because of what they call Chavez's `aggressive' and 
`intolerant' response to their demands. The strike is later made 
indefinite.

  - Oil exports, which account for 80 per cent of Venezuela's 
foreign revenues, are threatened as the strike stops production 
at the country's major refineries.

  Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and 
union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation. The 
government urges supporters to back Chavez.

  - Chavez orders a suspension of broadcasts by private television 
networks opposed to him.

  - Pro-government and opposition demonstrators face off in 
Caracas. At least 15 people are killed and almost 100 are 
wounded.

  - A group of 10 top military officials declare their opposition 
to Chavez.

  
- Leading military officials in the Chavez government resign.

  Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez 
announces that Chavez wants to resign.

  - Business leader Pedro Carmona replaces Chavez as the new 
President, dissolves the National Assembly, dismisses the 
Supreme Court, revokes 49 controversial Chavez decrees and 
announces Presidential elections in one year.

  - Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade 
summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order.

  Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American 
States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter 
requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy.

  - Pro-Chavez rioting breaks out in Caracas and other parts of 
country.

  - The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's 
old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim 
government.

  - Chavez is transferred from an army base in Caracas to the 
island of Orchila, in the Caribbean Sea.

  - Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential 
palace.

  
- Carmona takes refuge at Tiuna Fort, southwest of Caracas.

  - Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is 
conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and 
allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely.

  - Carmona announces the restoration of the National Assembly, as 
Chavez cabinet members move into the Presidential palace and 
hold a meeting.

  - Carmona resigns the interim presidency, and Chavez's 
vice-President, Diosdado Cabello, takes over as acting 
President. Carmona is arrested along with his cabinet and 
general staff. Cabello promises to restore constitutional order.

  Sunday: Chavez leaves Orchila Island aboard a helicopter and 
heads to Caracas.

  - Chavez officially re-takes the presidency in an emotional 
Presidential palace ceremony at 4:30 am (0830 GMT). He then 
calls for peace, calm, and `the unity of the country.'

  - Emergency workers say that in total, at least 41 people have 
been killed and 323 injured in rioting around the country since 
Thursday.

