    To the green and pleasant ?
	

    .
	

    Tim Radford reports on the prospects and options for farmers in the next year $...
	

    THE British farmer is about to wander into fresh woods and pastures new .
	

    In the course of doing so he could change the face of Britain .
	

    He could grow & bquo ; biomass & equo ; for biotechnology .
	

    He could ?
	

    in theory ?
	

    farm for the pharmaceutical companies .
	

    He could diversify into new crops like meadowfoam , lupins , borage , linseed and flax .
	

    In some areas he could plant his land with windmills .
	

    If the climate changes a_bit more , he could grow sweet corn in the south and wheat in the north .
	

    He could farm alpaca , deer and wild boar .
	

    He could take up organic farming and selling nurture as nature intended to a consumer market now seriously worried about E numbers and Alar .
	

    He could take up agroforestry ; he could convert to timber ; he could take up government agency schemes and grow winter grass mixtures for wild geese to graze upon , or engineer his fields to be a home for the stone curlew .
	

    He could grow hedges and wildflowers instead_of sugar beet ; he could turn his fields into areas of & bquo ; quiet countryside enjoyment & equo ; ; he could restore ancient coppices and chalk grassland .
	

    He could also go broke ?
	

    last year , farm incomes fell by 25 per_cent .
	

    His land could tumble down to scrub and nettles and eventually untidy woodland .
	

    Or he could sell most of his land to Mr Big and his house and a_few acres could fall into the hands of a merchant banker who wants somewhere quiet with a paddock for the daughter '_ s ponies .
	

    Then Mr Big could try diversifying .
	

    But he too would run into the same problems .
	

    Britain is over-producing : there will have to be some way of reducing output .
	

    There is a Ministry proposal called & bquo ; extensification . & equo ; It means that the whole farm has to produce 20 per_cent less .
	

    One scheme is already in place .
	

    It is called & bquo ; set aside . & equo ; A proportion of the farm ?
 	

    or for that matter all of it ?
	

    is set aside , left fallow , mown once a year while the farmer draws a set fee per acre and manages on the rest or gets another job .
	

    Either way , the countryside changes .
	

    There are various calculations about how much land is potentially redundant : it could be as many as three million acres .
	

    For the first time in decades , the nation has a chance to decide what to do with it .
	

    Conservationists , farmers and government agencies all agree that there is an opportunity right_now for debate and then decision .
	

    But there is no debate , and any decisions are likely to be taken , piecemeal and by default .
	

    On the horizon is a field of view overgrown with nettles , which no one seems to want to grasp .
	

    One of them is the geography of decline .
	

    Miss Melinda Appleby is environmental policy adviser to the National Farmers _' Union .
	

    She says one fear is that land in the hills will become redundant . & bquo ; These are areas where you could say farming was marginal .
	

    As profitablilty declines , they would go out_of farming .
	

    There is a big fear in the hills that in_order_to maintain businesses in the lowlands , people will diversify into sheep , and the profitability of sheep in the lowlands will be greater . & equo ;
	

    In fact , the Countryside Commission has just announced an imaginative scheme for 12 & bquo ; community forests & equo ; on marginal urban fringe farmland .
	

    But the community forests ?
	

    plus the Commission '_ s other plan for 100,000 acres of new forest in the Midlands , which will also soak up redundant land ?
	

    together with new land released for development , will barely scratch the surface of the problem .
	

    The National Farmers _' Union does n't like the idea of set aside .
	

    In the first place , the scheme only operates for five years , with no guarantee of continuation .
	

    There are also emotional objections . & bquo ; We wish to see as many farmers as possible occupying the countryside , & equo ; said Melinda Appleby . & bquo ; We want to see a working countryside and we do n't want to see it fossilised so it '_ s almost like a theme park . & equo ;
	

    Farmers have higher hopes of the & bquo ; extensification & equo ; programme in the wings .
	

    Under this , farms would have to reduce output by 20 per_cent .
    

    Some farmers are likely to achieve this by converting to organic farming .
	

    To a farmer it '_ s anathema not to produce on land .
	

    Unfortunately , even this wo n't be enough : the output figures from well-run organic farms are only between 6 and 12 per_cent below those from intensive estates .
	

    So & bquo ; extended & equo ; farms will have to leave a wide strip of unsown soil in each field , and let the hedges grow .
	

    But only a_few will make the change .
	

    Most will still be farming what they always farmed .
	

    And they still wo n't feel enthusiastic about extensification .
	

    & bquo ; To a farmer it '_ s an anathema not to produce on his land and therefore it '_ s not that he is not being responsible in meeting the challenges . & equo ;
	

    Many farmers , it turns out , would n't in the least object to making the countryside ?
	

    their countryside ?
	

    more attractive .
	

    It depends on what is defined as attractive .
	

    It would also depend on incentives and on some serious stimulus from the conservation lobby .
	

    & bquo ; People were extremely disappointed that conservationists could not come up with exciting positive solutions for potential land that might come out_of agriculture , & equo ; says Miss Appleby .
	

    Another problem is that the wildlife lobby is divided even over simple things like the future of old farm woodlands .
	

    Most of these were & bquo ; coppiced & equo ; ?
	

    cut to the ground every 20 years_or_so and then allowed to regenerate .
	

    Should these go back to coppice ?
	

    Or be allowed to go on growing ?
	

    She goes on : & bquo ; The problem with taking a management decision out_of a farmer '_ s hands as an economic decision and putting it into conservationists hands is that the conservationists do n't always agree .
	

    & bquo ; In the future , it seems , we are going to be taking arbitrary decisions about what we want from the countryside : the large blue here , a certain bird there , and we are going to manage for those species , which will mean that everything_else will go . & equo ;
	

    The countryside may be changing .
	

    It will go on changing .
	

    The Agriculture and Food Research Council reckon cereal yields could be increased by another 25 per_cent this century , freeing even more land .
	

    In a bid to meet the problem halfway , the AFRC has also invested 730,000 in a five-year study of the relationship between wildlife and farming ?
	

    and what will happen as land use goes on changing .
	

    The point is , that for the first time in decades , the environmentalists have a powerful voice ?
	

    and a Government which claims to listen .
	

    Three million acres or more of Britain '_ s countryside ca n't be left to tumble down to nettles , bracken , Oxford ragwort and rosebay willow herb , punctuated by leisure centres and car parks .
	

    Or if it can ?
	

    there is a case for that too ?
	

    it might as well be thought about first .
	

    Both the farmers and the conservationists agree that there ought_to be a debate .
	

    They also agree that a debate does n't seem to be taking place .
	

    There is a nettle for a somebody ?
	

    it might as well be the new Environment Secretary ?
	

    to grasp .
