	
A container from the Swedish nuclear technology firm Studsvik has leaked radioactive materials. The Swedish and US authorities are looking for people who might have been exposed to dangerous radiation, but there is no indication that the container started to leak in Sweden. This is Sweden's most serious incident so far involving radiation. 
	
	
 According to all indications, the radioactive container sent from the nuclear technology firm Studsvik to the US did not leak during transport within Sweden. When the container was transshipped in Paris, measurements showed no abnormal levels, according to the US Transport Department. 
	
	
 The container with the radioactive substance iridium 192 was transshipped at Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris by the shipping company Federal Express. The pilot who was supposed to fly the container to the US was equipped with a dosimeter, which measures radiation levels. 
	
	
 The US Transport Department has now informed Studsvik that the measurements done by Federal Express in Paris showed no abnormality. This means that no leak occurred before the container left Paris. "It this information is correct, it means that fewer people will have been exposed to radiation," said Hans-Bertil Hakansson, Studsvik managing director and concern chief, to DN [Dagens Nyheter]. 
	
	
 It is still not clear where the iridium container began to leak. "However, it is extremely unlikely that the leak occurred during the flight from Paris to Memphis," Hakansson said. Studsvik expects to get confirmation of the information it has received today. "But as we received it from a US official, we believe it is reliable," Hakansson said. 
	
	
 The iridium container left Studsvik in Nykoping on 27 December and was shipped via Norrkoping, Arlanda, and Paris to Memphis. On arrival, measurements showed that it was emitting far too much radiation. Measurements done at Studsvik before dispatch had not shown high radiation values. 
	
	
 Yesterday [07 January], the National Institute of Radiation Protection (SSI) announced that it could not exclude the possibility of people who had come into contact with the container suffering acute health effects from radiation. The event is classified as a level-three incident on the International Nuclear Event Scale (INES), and is the most serious ever in Sweden. 
	
	
 The SSI is now attempting to trace people who could have been exposed to the radiation leak. The SSI says that this involves about ten people in Sweden. The iridium container will be examined in New Orleans by US authorities and Studsvik's own personnel within the next few weeks. "When we open it, the whole picture will be cleared up," Hakansson said. 
	
	
 All shipments from Studsvik Isotope Service have been halted until further notice. 
	
	
	


