	
BEIJING, April 11 (AFP) - China on Thursday slammed increasingly close ties between the United States and Taiwan, demanding an end to official exchanges between the two and to US weapons sales. 
	
	
 "The continual sale of arms by the United States or upgrading of relations with Taiwan will only lead to tensions across the straits," foreign ministry spokeswoman Zhang Qiyue said. 
	
	
 "We demand the US strictly abide by the commitments it has made to China, correct its erroneous acts or remarks so as to avoid new harm to China-US relations." 
	
	
 Zhang further expressed alarm over Washington's announcement Wednesday that defense department officials will soon visit Taiwan to discuss the sale of eight diesel electric submarines. 
	
	
 "China has always resolutely opposed any form of official exchanges or military intercourse between the United States and Taiwan," Zhang said. 
	
	
 "The Taiwan issue is the most important and sensitive issue at the core of Sino-US relations," she said at the biweekly ministry briefing. 
	
	
 Military tensions in the Taiwan Strait were "not in the self-interests of the United States," she warned. 
	
	
 She refused to confirm an April 26 to May 3 visit by Chinese Vice President Hu Jintao to Washington, as reported in the Hong Kong press. The visit, if Beijing allows it, is widely expected to be centered on China's dissatisfaction over the Taiwan issue. 
	
	
 China has considered Taiwan a renegade province since 1949 and has threatened to bring it back by force if it continues to indefinitely refuse proposals for "peaceful reunification." 
	
	
 Beijing has also long refused to establish diplomatic relations with any nation that maintains official contact with Taiwan, although it has encouraged economic exchanges between Taiwan and all nations. 
	
	
 Zhang also bashed remarks made last month by US Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz at a meeting in Florida, attended by visiting Taiwanese Defense Minister Tang Yao-Ming. 
	
	
 "The United States is committed to doing whatever it takes to help Taiwan defend itself," said Wolfowitz, echoing President George W. Bush's remarks made when he first took office last year. 
	
	
 "Our position is clear," he continued. "We don't support Taiwan independence, but we oppose the use of force." 
	
	
 Wolfowitz expressed concern about China's continuing deployment of forces and tactical missiles to areas across the straits from Taiwan. 
	
	
 US officials denied Wolfowitz's remarks reflected a change in US policy on Taiwan. 
	
	
 Zhang said: "The remarks of the US official are a ... violation of US commitments made (on Taiwan) and interference in China internal affairs. China is firmly opposed to the remarks." 
	
	
 Chinese missile tests over Taiwan in 1996 resulted in Washington deploying two aircraft carrier battle groups to the region. 
	
	
	


