RUSSIA : Yeltsin pushes Russia closer to union with Belarus .
	

    Yeltsin pushes Russia closer to union with Belarus .
	

    Timothy Heritage
	

    MOSCOW 1997-03-31
	

    President Boris Yeltsin gave the green light on Monday to a draft treaty that would push Russia into a union with Belarus , despite liberals' fears that he might be signing away some of his powers to a hardliner .
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "Yeltsin", "the new treaty", "the union"]
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "Yeltsin", "the new treaty", "the union"]
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "Yeltsin", "the new treaty", "the union"]
	

    Foreign affairs adviser Dmitry Ryurikov told Itar-Tass news agency Yeltsin had approved the draft of a document for signing on Wednesday with Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko .
     Comments: this sentence is not important in itself, but contains the referent for "Lukashenko" mentioned in subsequent marked sentences.
     Link: [Comments: provides referent for "Lukashenko"]
	

    Ryurikov said the agreement could still be amended before Wednesday , leaving doubts about just how close ties between the two Slav states and former Soviet republics will be .
	

    Previous accords on integration have had few practical implications .
	

    But Yeltsin appeared to have resisted a rearguard action by Russian liberals who fear the authoritarian Lukashenko could gain a slice of power at the Kremlin's expense , posing questions about democracy , stability and human rights .
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "the liberals", and "also" needs previous mentions of similar things.]
	

    "_ Russian President Boris Yeltsin has on the whole approved the draft Union Treaty between Russia and Belarus , _" Tass said .
	

    Interfax news agency quoted well-informed source as saying an agreement would certainly be signed on Wednesday but added : "_ The most recent version of the text of the treaty should not be regarded as something final and fixed . _"
	

    Russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a "_ community _" with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by Yeltsin and Lukashenko on April 2 last year .
	

    Kremlin aides say Russians will not wake up in a new , single state on Thursday but that the accord has "_ colossal importance . _"
	

    A draft of the new treaty obtained by Reuters was confusing and left many questions unanswered .
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "it" (should this sentence also then be linked to the first sentence in the text which first mentions the treaty??)]
	

    It provided for a union under which the two states would be independent but coordinate their foreign , economic and military policies closely .
	

    The union would develop a joint legal system , joint running of energy , transport and communications systems , promote mutual trade and adhere to a common customs policy .
     Link: [Comments: provides the referent for "It" (but then again, should this second sentence be linked to the first one in the text that mention the union, even though the first sentence here is linked back to that?)]
	

    It would also prepare for introducing a single currency .
	

    Yeltsin , 66 , believes forging better ties with Belarus is a trump card because many Russians are nostalgic for the Soviet Union which fell apart in 1991 .
	

    It could also deflect some attention from Russia's economic woes .
	

    But Kremlin sources said liberals , led by first deputy prime ministers Anatoly Chubais and Boris Nemtsov , had tried to prevent Yeltsin approving the treaty and that divisions had opened in the government over the integration plans .
	

    The liberals fear the economic implications of integrating with a state where economic reforms are barely under way and share Western governments's concerns that Lukashenko is not committed to democracy and freedom of speech .
	

    "_ You can_ not talk about negotiating integration with a state where there is political repression , conditions for the normal existence of the opposition are ruled out and the work of the media is restricted , _" liberal leader Grigory Yavlinsky said .
	

    The liberals also say the Russian people have not been consulted properly .
	

    One Kremlin security aide , Boris Berezovsky , said the failure to consult Russia's neighbours over the union was also "_ absolutely inadmissible _" .
	

    Above_all , liberals fear Lukashenko could gain jurisdiction over some decisions affecting Russia under a nine-member Supreme Council which will oversee the Russia-Belarus union .
	

    A Russian minister described the council's role as deciding on issues "_ concerning the Russian-Belarussian partnership _" .
	

    He played down suggestions that the supra-national council would have sweeping powers , but the wording remained vague .
	

    Lukashenko , a 42-year-old former collective farm boss , said last week the Kremlin had rejected the notion of forming a single state .
	

    This decision appeared to address at_least some of the fears expressed by liberals .
