    In search of the most valuable GEMs of all Malcolm Smith on the importance of genetically-engineered micro-organisms .
	

    LOSING your favourite gems may be a personal disaster .
	

    But losing GEMs could have much farther reaching implications .
	

    GEMs are genetically engineered micro-organisms and finding them again could prove vital .
	

    So_far , none are known to have been released in the UK .
     Link: [Comments: zero anaphor of GEMS]
	

    But several are in the pipeline and there have been trials .
	

    The reluctance of UK Authorities to sanction their release ?
	

    for such agricultural purposes as extending the range of plants which harbour nitrogen-fixing bacteria in their roots ?
	

    is understandable .
	

    Once out you can never round them up .
	

    Detecting their presence is as much as is practical .
	

    Even that is far from straightforward .
	

    Alun Morgan and Dr Jon Saunders of the department of genetics and microbiology at the University of Liverpool , working with Dr Roger Pickup of the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology , Windermere , form one of a number of groups of scientists developing techniques to spot a GEM .
	

    There are so many bacteria everywhere that picking out a GEM is a_bit like looking for a candle amongst Blackpool '_ s illumination .
	

    Soil , for_example , can easily have millions of bacteria ?
	

    of very many different species ?
	

    in just a gram .
	

    A second problem is that many bacteria living & bquo ; in the wild & equo ; are not always easy to culture in the laboratory .
	

    Many have fickle requirements and others lie dormant until very precise conditions happen to come along .
	

    As a result , it '_ s been estimated that not many more than one per_cent can be cultured at any one time .
	

    The researchers have devised a suite of methods based on detecting a marker gene engineered into the GEM .
     Link: [Comments: the researchers refers to the scientists mentioned in this sentence]
	

    They '_ ve used one that codes for an enzyme called catechol 2,3-dioxygenase ( C230 for short ) .
	

    It converts catechol ?
	

    a naturally occuring substance in ordinary metabolism ?
	

    to a vivid yellow compound .
	

    The gene is very uncommon in nature so any intense yellow colonies of bacteria isolated from the wild ?
	

    and cultured ?
	

    are almost certainly the lost GEMs .
	

    It '_ s not the only way of checking for C230 .
	

    The enzyme can be tested for chemically , even in dilute water samples or by using other more complex , state of the art , tricks like DNA amplification .
	

    Using catechol is relatively simple and cheap .
	

    But the snag is that first you have to be able to recover the GEMs to culture them to do the catechol yellowing test .
	

    To develop a recovery method , Morgan , Saunders and Pickup used a Gem called Pseudomonas putida mt-2 , a modified common soil bacterium which may have wide applications for destroying toxic substances .
	

    Their method has been designed for recovering a GEM from water ?
	

    not easy because any bacteria in it are much less abundant than , say in soil .
	

    This GEM ?
	

    like most bacteria ?
	

    is n't the smooth cell shape that it looks .
	

    Tiny protein structures protrude ?
	

    like flagellae to help it move and pili to attach itself to surfaces .
	

    Their composition differs from one species of bacterium to the next .
	

    So mt-2 '_ s purified pili and flagellae were injected into animals so that they rapidly produced antibodies specific to them .
	

    These were then collected from their blood and purified .
	

    The next step was to chemically link these highly specific antibodies to small magnetised polystyrene spheres .
	

    Suspended in water , only the GEM for which the antibodies were specific will attach to the beads .
	

    The beads plus GEM are recovered with a magnet .
	

    The accuracy of the recovery process hinges on just how specific the flagellae/pili antibodies are .
	

    Once you have the GEMs on the polystyrene spheres they can be washed off and cultured for testing with catechol or other techniques .
	

    According_to the researchers , highly specific antibodies have ensured that the technique is a success .
	

    No confusion was found when they tested them against 200 different isolates of the same , but genetically unmodified , bacterium taken from lake water .
	

    This research , to enable identification of a released GEM ?
	

    and its whereabouts ?
	

    is essential because_of the risks involved in letting GEMs out_of the laboratory .
	

    There are concerns that , once released , GEMs might exhibit some previously unknown pathogenicity , might take over from some naturally occurring bacteria or pass on some perhaps unwanted trait to indigenous bacteria .
	

    There are also fears that a genetic mutation ?
	

    over which there could be no control ?
	

    could suddenly produce a GEM with some nasty trick up its sleeve .
	

    There may be ways around this , at_least in part , as Jon Saunders points out .
	

    Engineering a time delayed & bquo ; lethal gene & equo ; into a GEM to give it a finite life ?
	

    making it sensitive to low air temperatures so that frost kills it ?
	

    is one way .
	

    Doubling up on & bquo ; lethal genes & equo ; ?
	

    by making a GEM both frost susceptible and ultraviolet light sensitive ?
	

    is a belt and braces approach .
	

    But none of these tricks can insure against a mutation .
	

    Official concern was voiced at the EC '_ s Environment Council in September attended by Chris Patten , the UK '_ s Environment Minister .
	

    Reporting to the House of Commons , he said : & bquo ; Agreement was reached on a directive concerning the deliberate release ?
	

    of genetically modified organisms .
	

    The directive requires member states to establish systems for the national regulation of releases .
	

    It also establishesa system for the review and clearance of products containing genetically modified organisms so that conditions can be established for their marketing . & equo ;
	

    Reliable detection is an essential part of the precautions .
	
	

ng from the supermarket shelf .
