USA : March U.S. vehicle market seen steady , competitive .
	

    March U.S. vehicle market seen steady , competitive .
	

    David Lawder
	

    DETROIT 1997-03-31
	

    Continuing at a steady but unspectacular pace , U.S. car and truck sales for March are expected to show gains for Japanese and German automakers at the expense of Detroit's Big Three , analysts said Monday .
     Link: [Comments: s2 elaborates on what "Detroit's big 3" are, so if one is included, the other has to be.]
	

    Both Chrysler Corp. and Ford Motor Co. are expected to report March sales declines of about 3 percent , compared with a year ago , while General Motors Corp. may post gains of 3 percent to 6 percent over last year's strike-affected results .
	

    Chrysler plans to report sales on Tuesday , with GM following Wednesday and Ford on Thursday .
	

    Analysts said Japanese automakers are expected to continue increasing sales and market share , based on a hot portfolio of new products coupled with a weak Japanese yen that allows them to price more aggressively .
	

    "_ It still sounds pretty sloppy .
	

    This year's market is very competitive , _" said Schroder Wertheim analyst John Casesa .
	

    "_ The March numbers are going to show that the market is not as robust as the annual rate suggests . _"
	

    Analysts estimate that the seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for March light vehicle sales will be about 15 million to 15.4 million units , compared with 15.5 million a year ago .
	

    As the year drags on , automakers will probably have to fork over increasingly higher incentives to maintain sales rates above 15 million , Casesa said .
	

    The Federal Reserve's quarter-point increase in interest rates last week is not expected to have an immediate effect on vehicle sales , analysts said .
	

    "_ Another round or two of what we saw could lead to slightly less income growth , _" said independent auto analyst Scott Merlis .
	

    He added that increases in adjustable rate mortgage payments and credit card interest reduce consumers' ability to make new car payments .
	

    Last week at the New York Auto Show , both Chrysler and Ford signaled that their sales may be down slightly .
	

    Analysts predict that much of the losses will be in passenger cars .
	

    Ford's truck sales are expected to be up 2 percent to 3 percent , while Chrysler's truck sales are expected to be flat to down 1 percent .
	

    "_ The spring selling season has_ n't really yet gotten underway so it_ 's likely they_ 'll be down a_little_bit , _" Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said of Chrysler's overall results .
	

    CS First Boston analyst Nicholas Colas said Chrysler's sluggish passenger car sales are "_ troublesome , _" given the company's increased dealer incentive spending in the first quarter .
	

    "_ They do not appear to have had much impact on March sales , _" he said in a research report .
	

    Ford Division General Manager Ross Roberts on Thursday confirmed that Ford is adding new dealer incentives .
	

    The automaker has a $1,000 national rebate on the Taurus , which expires on Wednesday , and Roberts said Ford would keep the car competitive with Japanese competitors .
	

    GM's sales in March 1996 suffered from a 17-day brake plant strike that shut down production of nearly all of its North American assembly plants , particularly affecting the availability of light trucks .
	

    But GM's improved sales are not expected to be enough to offset the market share gains by Toyota Motor Corp. , Honda Motor Co. Ltd. and other Japanese automakers , particular in the intermediate passenger car market .
	

    German automakers , including Audi AG and Mercedes-Benz AG , are also expected to show improvements , adding to impressive market share gains of a full percentage point through the first two months of the year .
	

    GM shares closed off 75 cents at $55.375 , Ford rose 50 cents to $31.375 , and Chrysler slid 25 cents to $30 , all on the New York Stock Exchange .
