
Elaborating on the 'axis of evil'



 



  PRESIDENT GEORGE Bush's National Security Adviser Condoleezza 
Rice has recently "defined" the context and scope of the term 
"axis of evil" that Bush used in his State of the Union address 
a few weeks ago to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea. The 
criteria set by Rice are the following: the three countries in 
question are repressive and grave human rights violators, and 
aggressively seeking weapons of mass destruction.

  By all conservative estimates, there are scores of other 
countries which can easily qualify as repressive and violating 
human rights. The rule, as far as human rights are concerned, is 
that every nation which does not enjoy pluralistic democracy is 
violating human rights and is therefore oppressive. There are 
many countries in the world that hardly qualify as pluralistic 
democracies. On this count, the national security adviser may 
have erred.

  As for her wording regarding acquisition of weapons, what is 
particularly noteworthy is the use of the words "aggressively 
seeking" nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. In other 
words, countries which are seeking or developing such arsenal at 
a slow pace do not seem to come within the scope of the "axis of 
evil". One can name more than a dozen countries which are 
contemplating the acquisition of mass destruction weapons at one 
speed or another. All other countries which are seemingly 
refraining from acquiring such weapons are doing so not so much 
to escape being branded as "evil" but rather because they have 
neither the knowledge nor the money to join the "nuclear club".

  Come to think of it, acquiring weapons of mass destruction per 
se may not be a correct basis for judging whether a nation is 
good or evil. The mere development or possession of mass 
destruction weapons is not in itself a reason to label a state 
as evildoer. After all, the US is the first nation to have 
developed nuclear weapons. Moreover, the US is the first and 
only nation ever to deploy such weapons.

  Perhaps the real criterion in this context is whether the 
nuclear country is democratic in every sense of the word.

  Washington seems to be particularly disturbed and feel that its 
own national security is being threatened only when the nations 
which acquire mass destruction weapons are authoritarian or 
repressive, irrespective of the pace of amassing weaponry. This 
is, in fact, the fear of all countries, as they feel that 
democratic regimes are more restrained and responsible when it 
comes to resorting to weapons of mass destruction. If this is 
the case, Rice could have elaborated more precise criteria for 
membership in the "axis of evil," by establishing more clearly 
the connection between the nature of the regime and the 
acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.

