	
ANKARA (A.A) - 21.12.2001 - Yasin Hatiboglu, Deputy Chairman of the SP [Felicity Party]'s Parliamentary Group, claiming that countries in which the programs of the IMF [International Monetary Fund] are implemented experience the same fate, has said that the government must see the social explosion that has occurred in Argentina. 
	
	
 Hatiboglu began a press conference he held at the TBMM [Turkish Grand National Assembly] by saying that "I hope that Mr. [State Minister for the Economy Kemal] Dervis will not have the same fate as [former Argentine Economics Minister Domingo] Cavallo, and that our country's fate will not be the same as Argentina's." 
	
	
 Claiming that Indonesia, Malaysia, and Argentina, in which IMF programs were implemented, have all suffered the same fate, Hatiboglu called for taking lessons from the developments in Argentina. Hatiboglu spoke as follows: 
	
	
 "This government must finally see the Argentine government, and the social explosion that has befallen Argentina. Yesterday, Argentina as well was being portrayed as if everything there were going fine. It was said that Argentina was having success. Well, until the IMF brought them to the point of death, just as there's a transitory motion that's seen in corpses, that's what happened in Argentina." 
	
	
 Noting that a temporary golden age had been experienced in Argentina, Hatiboglu said that "The IMF knows very well how to calculate just when it will deliver the actual death blow. It delivered that blow, and hit Argentina. What you're calling the IMF is the ideal of a world kingdom." 
	
	
 Those who use the IMF 
	
	
 Hatiboglu, explaining that the IMF is in the hands of the "forces of money", said that these latter "toy with" the world in palms of their hands. 
	
	
 Hatiboglu responded as follows to a journalist's question as to whether Argentina had intentionally been brought to its current situation: 
	
	
 "There's a fantasy of a world kingdom that utilizes the IMF. Those who are really behind it all, those who are behind this business, use the IMF. Just as Kemal Dervis is a means in our country, and if through him they are able to orient Turkey in any way they choose, they are able to do whatever they want with countries by means of the IMF." 
	
	
 Criticism of government 
	
	
 Claiming that the family structure and social solidarity in Turkey are different from those in Argentina, Hatiboglu charged that, by means of the new Family Law, efforts are underway to do away with these. 
	
	
 Criticizing the policies of the government, Hatiboglu spoke as follows: "With such a Prime Minister, this country cannot be brought to prosperity; it will just be dragged along. With these three musketeers [a reference to the three-party coalition government], this country can only be dragged along, but won't get anywhere." 
	
	
 Yasin Hatiboglu also criticized the implementation of the program wherein classical Turkish 'divan' literature will not be taught in schools, and that, instead, pre-Republic and post-Republic literature will be taught. Stating that he intended to bring the matter onto the agenda through the Parliamentary oversight mechanisms, Hatiboglu said that "No one has the right to wage war against the history of this nation." 
	
	
 Criticizing as well the appointment of Kemal Alemdaroglu as rector of Istanbul University, Hatiboglu noted that the failure to discuss the report by the Higher Education Research Commission had been instrumental in this, and charged that President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had appointed Alemdaroglu even though aware of the allegations concerning him. 
	
	
 Responding to a question, Yasin Hatiboglu asserted that the [controversial] 2002 calendar had not been prepared by the SP itself, but rather that the calendar that has made news had in fact been composed by a private firm. 
	
	
 
	
	
	


