
   Geneva Convention applies to Taliban, not Al Qaeda: US

 





  WASHINGTON, Feb 7: The White House on Thursday declared that the 
Geneva Convention applies to Taliban forces in the Afghanistan 
phase of the war on terrorism, but not to Osama bin Laden's Al 
Qaeda followers.

  "President Bush today has decided that the Geneva Convention 
will apply to the Taliban detainees but not to the Al Qaeda 
international terrorists," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer told 
reporters.

  The move comes after fevered criticism - including from key US 
allies - stemming from alleged mistreatment of Taliban and Al 
Qaeda detainees the United States is holding at "Camp X-Ray" in 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

  "It will not change their material life on a day-to-day basis: 
they will continue to be treated well because that's what the 
United States does," said Fleischer, who noted neither group 
would be granted prisoner of war status. And, "Al Qaeda is an 
international terrorist group and cannot be considered a state 
party to the Geneva Convention. Its members therefore are not 
covered," by the accord, said the spokesman.

  DETAINEES ARRIVE IN CUBA: A new group of 28 prisoners captured 
in Afghanistan arrived by air on Thursday, bringing the total 
number of detainees to 186.

  Six of the detainees were transported on stretchers aboard the 
C-141 cargo flight that left Kandahar, Afghanistan on Wednesday 
for the 25-hour flight.

  Earlier on Wednesday, the US military resumed controversial 
flights of heavily guarded Al Qaeda and Taliban captives from 
Afghanistan to a naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, a senior US 
official said.

  The official, who asked not to be identified, told newsmen that 
the first flight of captives in more than two weeks had left 
Afghanistan late on Wednesday and was to arrive at the isolated 
prison camp late on Thursday. The official did not say how many 
prisoners were on the flight.

  Flights carrying up to 30 of what the Pentagon calls "detainees" 
were suspended on Jan 23 by defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld 
pending expansion of outdoor jail facilities at the American 
base.

  A total of 158 captives, whom the Pentagon has refused to 
classify as prisoners of war, are already being held and 
interrogated at Guantanamo amid criticism they have not been 
treated properly under the Geneva Convention.

  None has yet been charged with a crime, but Washington has 
maintained that the prisoners are being treated humanely.

  The shackled and blindfolded captives are being flown to Cuba 
from Kandahar in southern Afghanistan under tight guard and are 
being housed at the base in 8-by-8-foot cage-like outdoor cells.

  The detainees at "Gitmo," as US soldiers call the base, are of 
various nationalities. Saudi officials have said that 100 are 
from the Gulf kingdom and have demanded they be returned to face 
justice at home.

  Bush said last week he was willing to consider Saudi Arabia's 
request on a case-by-case basis but U.S. officials doubted it 
would happen any time soon.-AFP/Reuters



@ The DAWN Group of Newspapers, 2002

