USA : Chrysler plans new investments in Latin America .
Chrysler plans new investments in Latin America .
David Lawder
AUBURN HILLS , Mich. 1996-08-20
Chrysler Corp. Tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for South America , including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in Brazil and the expansion of a Jeep plant now being built in Argentina .
Comments: essential
Chrysler , which is cautiously trying to rebuild its international presence , said the projects in Brazil were worth about $315 million , and the expansion in Argentina was worth about $65 million .
Roughly one third of the total investment , or about $126.6 million , will come from Chrysler's suppliers , who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy , Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said .
"_ We do_ n't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets , _" added Thomas Gale , Chrysler's executive vice president of international operations .
"_ We_ 're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities . _"
Eaton said the investments will boost Chrysler's sales in the Mercosur free-trade zone , which groups Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay .
But the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the Mercosur market away from rivals General Motors Corp. , Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG , he said .
"_ We are targeting very specific market segments , _" he said . "_ We do_ n't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application . _"
The new Brazilian plant , which will be Chrysler's third limited-production facility in South America , will assemble the automaker's all-new Dakota compact pickup truck for sale in Argentina , Brazil , Paraguay and Uruguay , the countries in the Mercosur free-trade zone .
Comments: essential
In Argentina , Chrysler said it will add production of about 6,000 Jeep Cherokees a year at a plant now under construction in the Cordoba province .
     Comments: essential
The plant is already scheduled to build about 14,000 Jeep Grand Cherokees per year starting next April , and Cherokee output will begin in 1998 .
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll off the assembly line starting in mid-1998 , Chrysler said .
Production , however , will be modest , with 12,000 trucks in the first year and an ultimate capacity of 40,000 units annually .
Employment will start at 400 people .
The trucks at first will be largely assembled from "_ complete knock-down _" kits shipped from the United States , but the automaker intends to meet the Mercosur trade bloc's 60 percent local content requirement after three years .
Chrysler has not decided whether to market the Dakota under the Dodge brand name or under one of its other brands .
The automaker now uses the only Jeep and Chrysler brand names outside the United States , Canada and Mexico .
The $315 million Brazil investment also includes a new diesel engine plant to be built by Detroit Diesel Corp. .
The $10 million facility will supply the company's Italian-designed VM Motori four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engines for use in the Brazilian Dakota as_well_as in Jeep models built in Argentina .
Chrysler installs about 40,000 of the engines annually into minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokees sold in Europe .
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler by opening plants in Latin America include Dana Corp. , Johnson Controls Inc. , Lear Corp. , Lear Corp. United Technologies Corp. and PPG Industries Inc. , Chrysler executives said .
Eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country Mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade .
"_ We think this is a major growth area , _" Eaton said . "_ It_ 's politically and economically a stable region , we think with particularly rising consumer buying power . _"
Including a small plant in Venezuela that assembles Cherokees and Neon small cars from kits , the investments announced Tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler and its suppliers have made in South America , the company said .
Chrysler stock rose 25 cents to close at $28.875 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange .
	
	