
   Canadian to join Endeavour crew

 



 OTTAWA - An Ottawa-born physicist will be the next Canadian in 
space.

  Allan Rock, the Industry Minister, announced yesterday that 
Steve MacLean, 47, has been assigned to fly aboard the Space 
Shuttle Endeavour in April, 2003.

  The flight will be his second time in space. He flew onboard the 
Space Shuttle Columbia in 1992.

  Dr. MacLean will join the Endeavour crew for the 10-day mission 
to complete the next stage of assembling the International Space 
Station. He will join other astronauts in four spacewalks to add 
trusses to the station and deploy additional solar panels. Two 
Russians are also among the six-member crew.

  Canadarm 2, a crane-like device attached to the station, will be 
used to its fullest extent when Dr. MacLean moves a 
communication aerial from one end of the craft to the other. "I 
cannot tell you how pleasing it is to my own ears to hear me say 
that during my mission I'm going to ride and fly Canadarm 2," 
said Dr. MacLean.

  In May, Dr. MacLean will be working at the Johnson Space Center 
in Houston, during the next shuttle shot to the station. As 
capsule communicator, Dr. MacLean will relay information between 
the shuttle crew and Mission Control during flights.

  Dr. MacLean tugged a red Canadian Olympic hockey shirt over his 
blue astronaut flight suit yesterday, telling reporters he 
wanted to get several more for the rest of the Canadian control 
crew to wear while working on the mission in May.

  But Marc Garneau, the head of Canada's Space Agency, said how 
many more international astronauts will follow Dr. MacLean into 
space is an issue Canada and other nations are facing after the 
U.S. said last year it will reduce the scope of the space 
station program.

  "There will be an impact starting probably in 2004," Dr. Garneau 
said, adding that the U.S. cuts mean reduced scientific 
experiments and reduced shuttle flights. Dr. Garneau pointed to 
the station's rescue vehicle as a key example of the program's 
reduction.

  The space station's emergency rescue ship to return the crew is 
a Russian Soyuz spacecraft that can only accommodate three crew 
members. U.S. budgetary problems means plans to build a larger 
craft have been halted.

  Space agencies from Russia, Japan, Europe and Canada, partners 
in the space station program, will meet in March to discuss 
their concerns over its future.

  "The pressure at this point is to try and get our American 
colleagues to live up to the obligation that is embodied in the 
inter-governmental agreements we all signed,"said Dr. Garneau, 
Canada's first astronaut.When it is fully constructed, the space 
station's lifespan is 20 years, so it is vital to enlarge the 
size of the crew, Dr. Garneau said. Construction of the space 
station began in the mid-1980s.

  "The clock is ticking. It [the station] has a limited 
lifetime,"said Dr. Garneau. "So it's very important for us to 
get back up to that crew size of six or seven. I'm confident 
that we're going to find a way around it. At the moment it's a 
challenge."



Copyright @ 2002 National Post Online |

