 BRAZIL : SOCCER-BOTAFOGO BEAT THE RULES TO REACH FINAL .
     SOCCER-BOTAFOGO BEAT THE RULES TO REACH FINAL .
Brian Homewood
     RIO DE JANEIRO 1997-03-30
     Botafogo won the first stage of the Rio de Janeiro championship on Sunday after a match in which the bizarre rules of the competition , rather_than rivals Vasco da Gama , appeared to be their real opponents .
     Botafogo won all eleven of their games in the first stage of the tournament but were then forced to decide the title in a Sunday's one-off match against Vasco , who finished the stage eight points below them in second place .
     The rules stated that in the first stage , the top two teams would meet in a final , no_matter_how far apart they were .
     Botafogo , however , overcame their sense of injustice by beating Vasco 1-0 with late headed goal by central defender Goncalves .
     "_ In any other country in the world , Botafogo would have won without having to play this game , _" Goncalves said afterwards .
	
     Goalkeeper Vagner commented : "_ After eleven straight wins , we still had to play Vasco but I think God was watching us . _"
	
     Winning the first stage guarantees Botafogo a place in the final of the tournament , where they will join the winners of the next two stages .
	
     Curiously , the next two stages will be decided on points , with no final being played .
	
     Botafogo still have to play in the next two stages but can win the title automatically if they win them both .
	

     The Rio de Janeiro championship has been dogged by problems throughout .
	

     Botafogo were among three clubs who boycotted the opening day of play because they did not like the rules at the time .
	
     A new set of rules was subsequently agreed upon .	

     The coach of Itaperuna was so incensed at the refereeing in one game that he ran onto the pitch and ripped off his shirt and dropped his trousers in protest .
	
     He was later banned for 14 months .
	

     Meanwhile , several games have been marred by brawls on the pitch which have needed police intervention .
	

     On Wednesday , Botafogo , already guaranteed their place in the fianl , caused a furore when they fielded a reserve team against Flamengo , who needed to beat them to overtake Vasco and finish second .
	
To Vasco's amazement and Flamengo's humiliation , Botafogo's reserves won 1-0 .
	
     Despite the chaos , 86,000 fans watched Sunday's game at the Maracana stadium , which itself is a symbol of decay due_to its neglected state .
	
    Sao Paulo lost their unbeaten record in the Sao Paulo championship when they lost 1-0 to Palmeiras , for whom Viola scored the winning goal $-- his 14th of the competition .
	
     Palmeiras , the only unbeaten team left in the competition , lead group one while Corinthians , who won 2-0 away to Botafogo $- Ribeirao Preto , are top of group two .
	
     The top two teams in each group qualify for the final stage .
