	

	
	
 The tragic and shocking events that shook the United States, destroying a number of its economic, urban, and military landmarks, have aroused grief and sorrow worldwide. This is because the terrorist violence has struck innocent women and children and defenseless civilians. The scenes of destruction reminded the Palestinian people of the ongoing devastation and the Palestinians who are falling victim to the Israeli acts of bombardment, targeted assassinations, and incursions into Palestinian towns and villages, including Bayt Jala, Gaza, Khan Yunus, Rafah, Janin, Tulkarm, Ramlallah, Jericho, Nabulus, and others. 
	
	
 Nobody who has a live conscience and human feelings, whether he is Palestinian or otherwise, could not have been moved by these events and expressed sympathy for the families of the US victims, regardless of the US political stances that are totally biased to Israel and Israel's use of the most advanced US weapons to curb the Palestinian intifadah. This is because the Palestinians were, and still are, hoping that the Americans would realize, if they have not already realized, the justice of the Palestinian cause and the enormous injustice suffered by the Palestinians, who were expelled from their homeland, whose land was occupied, and who were deprived of the minimum political and human rights. 
	
	
 If any people are going to be moved by the scenes of destruction that involved Manhattan, the World Trade Center, and the Pentagon, it is the Palestinian people. These people saw the majority of their security sites destroyed and the residential neighborhoods and apartment buildings parallel to the combat lines with the Israeli army and settlements in the West Bank and Gaza targeted by the Apaches helicopters and large-caliber artillery and machine guns. 
	
	
 However, for Israel to take advantage of the US tragedy to claim that it is standing in one ditch with the United States against the violence of terrorism, this is a twisted logic. This is because Israel is an occupation state, one that is persecuting the Palestinians and denying them the right to exercise their national and sovereign rights. Such a comparison would be theoretically valid if Israel withdrew from the occupied territories but the violence of terrorism against it continued. 
	
	
 While the world is busy following the news of the attacks on the US targets and feeling sorry for these acts, Israel carried out an incursion into Janin and the neighboring villages, bombarded more Palestinian internal security sites, demolished more homes in East Jerusalem, and killed an additional number of Palestinian activists and non-activists, including an 11-year-old girl. 
	
	
 It is very important for the United States to realize the difference between the US and Israeli cases. The Palestinians want nothing from Washington but to understand their cause and stand beside right and justice. What is required of Israel is to withdraw, both on the military and settlement fronts, from the territories occupied in 1967, and the United States should push its ally Israel in that direction. This would put an end to sensitivities, hatred, and injustice and spread peace in the region and the world. 
	
	
	


