BULGARIA : Bulgaria to float state firms on revived bourse .
	

    Bulgaria to float state firms on revived bourse .
	

    Thalia Griffiths
	

    SOFIA 1997-03-31
	

    Bulgaria's industry ministry , facing a mammoth task in restructuring 1,150 state firms , hopes to float some companies on a revived stock exchange to make privatisation more transparent and attract foreign investors .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "such investment"]
	

    Deputy Industry Minister Marin Marinov said on Monday revival of the stock exchange , which suspended floor trading in October , was one condition of a structural adjustment loan under negotiation with the World Bank .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "He".]
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "He".]
	

    "_ Domestic buyers in the market are not that many and our hope was that if we float say 10 to 20 percent of a certain number of big state companies on the stock exchange we will find institutional investors from the West , _" Marinov said .
	

    He told Reuters in an interview the cash generated by such investment would go back into the companies instead_of into the state budget as with direct privatisations .
	

    "_ At the moment Bulgaria is ideal for foreign investors in some ways because here you can buy low and sell high because_of the general depression we are in at the moment , _" Marinov said .
     Comments: this is speech, but important, and it links to other sentences later in the text.
	

    Many plants are operating at a fraction of capacity , and highly-qualified workers are idle .
	

    Marinov said that of the 1,150 enterprises controlled by his ministry , 845 made a profit last financial year and the rest made a loss .
	

    He put their combined pre-tax profit at 90.64 billion levs under the Bulgarian accounting system which takes no account of inflation , while the loss-makers made a 59.737 billion loss .
	

    "_ If we did_ n't have the loss-makers , the state companies as a whole would be making something like half a billion dollars profit $... this would be a significant boost to the economy , though if those companies were private they would make three or four times more profit , _" he said .
	

    Marinov said floating the companies would make the privatisation process more transparent as potential investors would have open access to financial data .
	

    "_ It_ 's a half-way house to attracting foreign investment but also it_ 's an end in itself to create a stock-owner society . _"
	

    Bulgaria's mass privatisation programme has issued eight billion levs of stock but at present there is no clear procedure for trading it .
	

    Privatisation is a key part of Bulgaria's commitments to the IMF and World Bank , and will generate foreign currency badly needed to support a fixed exchange rate system due_to be introduced in June .
	

    The government is seeking financial advisers for 22 sell-offs to be launched in April .
	

    The sale of a 60 percent stake in soda ash producer Sodi to Belgium's Solvay for $160 million is currently held up by objections from Italy's anti-monopoly commission .
	

    The former Socialist government officially abolished direct subsidies to loss-makers but tried to keep the firms going through payouts from state-owned commercial banks , several of which are now in the middle of bankruptcy proceedings .
	

    "_ This was a very complicated scheme of subsidising the loss-making enterprises , which did no good to the economy as a whole and to the enterprises as well , _" Marinov said .
	

    He said companies would be internally liquidated or restructured , or if their debts were too heavy , bankruptcy would be sought through the courts , though this would take longer because bankruptcy provisions were only recently added to Bulgaria's commercial law and judges were inexperienced .
	

    Rather_than the lists of companies for liquidation drawn up with the previous government , the interim cabinet agreed with the IMF and World Bank to eliminate a proportion of losses , a more flexible approach if individual cases are held up .
	

    Marinov said this was still under negotiation with the World Bank as a condition for the FESAL loan but he expected a proportion of about 30 percent .
	

    General elections are due on April 19 but the industry ministry team expects to stay on under the new government and continue its work .
	

    "_ This is really a pilot programme .
	

    If it is successful then Bulgaria will open up_to the West much faster than through other means , _" Marinov said .
