	
ISTANBUL, Dec 21 (A.A) - Rauf Denktas, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) said on Friday that Cyprus is wanted to be given as a gift to those who stole the Cyprus government by means of EU membership. 
	
	
 ``I expect the Turkish world to resist to that as much as Turkey does and to act consciously to defend the law and justice,`` he said. 
	
	
 The Turkish States and Communities Friendship, Brotherhood and Cooperation Congress started the same day. 
	
	
 Addressing the meeting, Denktas said that this week is ``Martryrs Week,`` adding that ``it is the 38th anniversary of the struggle started to annihilate Turks in Cyprus...We fought for half of our lives to prevent the occupation of Cyprus from Greece and not to make the island a Greek dagger that is thrust into the heart of Anatolia. I wish the representatives of the Turkish world to bring this message to their friends.`` 
	
	
 Noting that the agreements signed in 1960 for Cyprus were considered as nonexistent by many countries, Denktas said that the international society treated the island as if it was a Greek Cypriot Republic and treated its Turkish partner as if it was a minority. 
	
	
 Denktas said that they are ready to live together with Greek Cypriots in the island, adding that they don`t have the will to send Greek Cypriots from the island. 
	
	
 ``We wish them to give up their wish and policy to throw us from the island. They should not condemn us with lies and by deceiving the world,`` he said. 
	
	
 Denktas noted that there is no Cypriot nation in the island and there can`t be a minority if there is no nation, stressing that he will launch efforts to make Cyprus a friendship bridge between Turkey and Greece. 
	
	
 Calling on the representatives of the Turkish world who attended the congress, Denktas said that Turkish Cypriots are not minority in the island and representatives should explain this fact in every place which they visit. 
	
	
 Also asking for help from the Turkish press, Denktas said that ``I ask for help from the press as I will negotiate for peace and compromise to solve Cyprus question. I would like these representatives to explain the fact to the EU, which forgot the 1960 Constitution that the Turkish Cypriots are not minority and the Greek Cypriot side which wants to join the EU unilaterally and as if it was the legitimate government of Cyprus is not expected in the EU.`` 
	
	
 Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, TRNC, autonomous federal states namely Altay, Bashkortostan, Chuvashia, Khakassia, Gagauz Place, Chechnia, Crimea, Saha, Tatarstan, Tuva, and Turks living in Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kosovo, Western Thrace, the U.S., Europe, Middle East and Afghanistan attended the meeting which was held under the auspices of former Turkish President Suleyman Demirel. 
	
	
	


