
Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It

 





  International reaction to the controversial re-election of 
Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe to another six year term 
varied widely. African observers generally approved of his 
victory, while Western governments denounced it.

  Observer missions from South Africa, Nigeria, Namibia and the 
Organisation of African Unity (OAU) respectively, described the 
poll as "legitimate" - largely satisfactory and transparent, 
credible, free and fair.

  All three observer teams noted long queues and delays in chaotic 
voting.

  The Namibians went as far as to say Zimbabwe's election system 
was "water tight, without room for rigging". The South African 
observer team blamed the long lines of voters unable to vote 
despite waiting many hours on "administrative oversights", a 
description that drew audible laughter from journalists and 
diplomats attending their press conference in the capital, 
Harare on Wednesday.

  President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling 
his victory "testimony of the confidence and high esteem the 
people of Zimbabwe hold in you."

  The observations of the 14-member Southern African Development 
Community (SADC) Parliamentary Forum team differed considerably 
from the other African missions. In sharp contrast to other 
African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the 
elections fell short of regional expectations.

  "The climate of insecurity obtaining in Zimbabwe since the 2000 
parliamentary elections was such that the electoral process 
could not be said to adequately comply with the norms and 
standards for elections in the SADC region," the forum said in a 
statement.

  That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main 
Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support 
Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have 
been heavily critical.

  The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian 
observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election 
failed to meet international standards. Norway Prime Minister 
Jan Petersen said in a statement that "The presidential election 
in Zimbabwe has not satisfied the fundamental requirements for a 
democratic election."

  Mugabe's main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for 
Democratic Change, has rejected the outcome of the presidential 
poll. He said the result was "illegitimate" and a clear case of 
"highway robbery" by Mugabe, his government and his party, 
Zanu-PF. Tsvangirai warned that his disenfranchised supporters 
were "seething" but implored them to stay calm.

  The MDC leader said systematic cheating, spoiling tactics, rigid 
new laws and sheer obstruction - as well as political violence 
and intimidation - were just some of the irregularities 
practised by the authorities in the run-up to, and during the 
poll.

  Mugabe was announced the winner with 56.1 percent of the vote, 
leaving Tsvangirai trailing behind with 42 percent. The 
government has rejected all criticism, describing the election 
as "exemplary, free, fair and peaceful."

  
Western governments disagree.

  Western governments are lining up to condemn the Mugabe 
government, while the African bloc appears to have opted for 
solidarity in support of Mugabe.

  Jack Straw, the foreign secretary of the former colonial power, 
Britain, which is locked in a verbal war with Mugabe, said the 
Zimbabwean head of state was bent on achieving "one goal, power 
at all costs. It is no surprise that this outcome has now been 
achieved."

  U.S. President George Bush added his voice on Wednesday night, 
categorically rejecting Zimbabwe's presidential poll. "We do not 
recognize the outcome of the election because we think it's 
flawed. We are dealing with our friends to figure out how to 
deal with this flawed election."

  Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: "Mr 
Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy."

  France and Germany also indicated that the election had failed 
the 'free and fair' test.

  The Canadian prime minister, Jean Chretien, said the election 
"does not look very good".

  Australia, which with South Africa and Nigeria has been mandated 
to report on the Zimbabwe presidential poll to the Commonwealth, 
was equally critical.

  "If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been 
cheated through the election process, it is possible that some 
could resort to violence," said the foreign minister, Alexander 
Downer.

  The United Nations' secretary-general, Kofi Annan, appealed for 
calm after the poll and urged Zimbabweans to refrain from 
violence. Annan acknowledged that he was receiving conflicting 
reports about the conduct of the poll.

  Facing perhaps a legal challenge from the opposition to his 
contested electoral victory, Mugabe is becoming increasingly 
isolated on the international stage. The European Union and the 
United States have already imposed 'smart', selected sanctions 
on Mugabe and 19 people in his inner circle.

  But the Zimbabwean leader has been silent since his final 
campaign rally last Friday, though people are eagerly awaiting 
his victory speech. The president was nowhere to be seen in 
Harare as his supporters took over the downtown streets of the 
capital, loudly celebrating his victory.

  Mugabe's allies and detractors may all hope that he is spending 
the time reviewing the tense situation in the country and 
working out how best to calm fears and concern and rally 
Zimbabweans together.


Copyright @ 2002 allAfrica.com. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media (allAfrica.com). Click here to contact the copyright holder directly for corrections -- or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material.



