UKRAINE : Ukraine's leader criticises Russia-Belarus union .
	

    Ukraine's leader criticises Russia-Belarus union .
	

    Rostislav Khotin
	

    KIEV 1997-03-31
	

    Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma on Monday described a planned union between Russia and Belarus as "_ nonsense _" that could ruin the Commonwealth of Independent States ( CIS ) , the grouping of 12 former Soviet republics .
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "Kuchma was referring to" in s2.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "Kuchma was referring to" in s2.]
     Link: [Comments: s1 is needed to explain "Kuchma was referring to" in s2.]
	

    "_ If there is unification it will be completely mechanical because the speeds of development of Russia and Belarus are absolutely different as are the opinions of the leaderships , _" Kuchma told a news conference .
	

    Kuchma was referring to plans by Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko to sign a bilateral Union Treaty in Moscow on Wednesday .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referents for s2's Yeltsin and Lukashenko.]
	

    "_ I am against unification at different levels inside the CIS $... as this is absolute nonsense .
	

    This is a way to the destruction of the CIS , _" he said .
	

    Yeltsin on Monday approved the draft of the treaty despite liberals' fears that he might be signing away some of his powers to authoritarian Lukashenko .
	

    Deputy Prime Minister Valery Serov , who co-authored the draft , later dismissed such fears as groundless .
	

    Ukraine , whose referendum on independence in December 1991 heralded the end of the Soviet Union , is generally sceptical about the re-integration of ex-Soviet states and aims for integration with European structures .
	

    Kuchma was the first foreign leader to meet Lukashenko after a controversial constitutional referendum in Belarus last November which gave the Minsk leader sweeping powers .
	

    The Ukrainian leader , usually hesitant to criticise Lukashenko , said he did not support some of the Belarus leader's actions such as his recent crackdowns on the mass media .
	

    Belarussian authorities have recently warned foreign correspondents that they would have their licences to report withdrawn if they showed bias .
	

    One Russian television correspondent had his accreditation withdrawn and was ordered to leave Belarus by March 31 .
	

    Kuchma also praised a CIS summit in Moscow last week as the first one to take Kiev's interests into account .
	

    "_ It was the first attempt to show the CIS consists of equal partners .
	

    Before , issues were often considered only from Russia's point of view , _" Kuchma said .
	

    Kuchma , who met Yeltsin on Saturday after the CIS summit , confirmed the Kremlin leader would visit Kiev , a trip that has been postponed at_least six times .
	

    But he added that Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin would come to Kiev before Yeltsin to discuss economic issues .
	

    "_ Relations between the two governments have been stopped and this was a tragedy for Ukraine , _" Kuchma said .
	

    Ukraine holds observer status in the CIS , despite being one of its co-founders .
