Australian govt pushes budget , despite protests .
Bradley Perrett
CANBERRA 1996-08-21
Australia's new conservative government on Wednesday began selling its tough deficit-slashing budget , which sparked violent protests by Aborigines , unions , students and welfare groups even before it was announced .
Two days of anti-budget street protests preceded spending cuts officially unveiled by Treasurer Peter Costello .
"_ This is a once-in-a-decade chance to get it right , _" Costello said in a radio interview .
"_ If we do_ n't do it now , Australia is going to be in deficit and debt into the next century . _"
Tuesday's budget sliced A$4 billion ( US$3.1 billion ) from the budget for the current fiscal year , to June 1997 , as a first instalment towards an underlying surplus ( excluding asset sales ) by 1998/99 .
Costello told parliament the 1996/97 deficit would be A$5.6 billion , down from A$10.3 last year .
Earlier , about 150 protesting Aborigines had attacked police with bricks , bottles and stakes during a 20-minute confrontation near the Parliament House .
As the protesters had feared , Costello revealed a cut to the government's Aboriginal welfare commission among the hundreds of measures implemented to claw back the deficit .	
Programmes for the unemployed were heavily cut , and Costello fended off criticism that the government , driven by conservative ideology , had targetted the poor .
"_ There_ 'll be a_lot_of people quaffing their wines down at Pitt Street who wo_ n't like it , _" he said , referring to Sydney's central business district .
Financial markets were mildly disappointed that the budget failed to be as tough as they expected .
The Australian dollar and bonds fell immediately after the budget announcement .
The government's political opponents accused it of sleight of hand , taking from the public when it appeared to give .
The budget's fate was not immediately clear , with minor parties refusing to guarantee passage through the Senate , the upper house of parliament .
Australian Democrats leader Cheryl Kernot said it was too early to say if her party would pass all measures .
The government needs two extra votes $-- from the Democrats , the two Greens or two Independents $-- to get its legislation past the Labor Opposition in the Senate .
Labor , beaten in the March 2 federal election and which the government blames for Australia's economic woes after 13 years of Labor rule , said the government was hurting the weakest groups in society and was short on detail .
The head of the Australian Council of Trade Unions , Jennie George , told reporters the budget hurt the weakest groups in the community and did nothing to solve Australia's high unemployment rate $- now 8.5 percent .
"_ The scenario for unemployment is very bleak indeed , _" George said .
The cuts , many of which had been disclosed ahead_of the budget , have sparked protests around the country and triggered rioting during a protest by unionists , students , Aborigines and welfare groups at Parliament House on Monday .
Violence flared again on Tuesday as Aboriginals gathered in Canberra to protest against funding cuts .
But financial markets , which had been expecting a lower deficit were lukewarm .
"_ It_ 's a relatively tough budget but not as tough as advertised .
That_ 's the bottom line that is coming through , _" UBS Australia chief economist Stephen Roberts told Reuters .
( A $$ $-- US$0.785 )
