
   Zimbabwe vote a test of patience

 



 

 HARARE AND RUSHINGA, ZIMBABWE - Martha's neighbors know her as a 
high-ranking district official of Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF 
Party, the woman who drills local children each Friday in the 
party doctrine. But in her heart, the 38-year-old widow supports 
the opposition and keeps a Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) 
membership card hidden in a cooking pot.

  "We just want someone who can give us food, hospitals, school 
fees. A better life," says Martha, explaining why she voted for 
MDC candidate Morgan Tsvangirai.

  There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF 
anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while 
secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai. "People pretend to 
be ZANU-PF because they are afraid. They wear the T-shirts and 
go to the rallies, but inside, they don't believe," she says.

  After months of fear and intimidation, Zimbabweans streamed to 
the polls this weekend in record numbers to cast their votes in 
the country's first contested election since independence 22 
years ago. Many arrived at overburdened polling stations in the 
early hours of the morning and waited in the hot sun for the 
entire day without food.

  "You see this tarred road and this grass? That was my bed," says 
Janet, a Harare secretary, who waited for more than 27 hours at 
a polling station in the impoverished Harare suburb of 
Kuwadzana. "I wanted to go home, but I have to vote," she says. 
"This is a crucial presidential election. This is our future."

  Even as voters went to the polls over the weekend, the 
intimidation and attempts at rigging continued. The government 
slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the 
MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party 
strongholds. In Kuwadzana, there were seven polling stations for 
about 55,000 people. Rural Bindura had 41 polling stations for a 
smaller number of people.

  Now the country's 5.6 million voters are waiting anxiously for 
the results of the poll to be announced, although the voting, 
which was supposed to end Sunday, may stretch on for days. The 
question foremost in the minds of most Zimbabweans is whether 
attempts to rig the election through voter intimidation, last- 
minute election-law changes, and outright fraud have succeeded.

  An increasing number of local election monitors and 
international observers say the vote rigging has been so 
thorough that hopes for a free election are dead.

  "The main cheating took place long before election days," says 
Brian Murphy of the Zimbabwe Citizens support group, an 
organization whose members spread around the country this 
weekend privately monitoring the elections. Mr. Murphy points to 
the lack of independent voter education, the lack of any 
independent radio stations, and the ban on holding opposition 
rallies in many districts as just a few examples. "This is not a 
fair election," he says.

  
There is a deep faith here, however, in the power of democracy.

  Edward Murchabaiw arrived at a Rushinga polling station at 6 
a.m. in a wheelbarrow, his emaciated frame drowing in a faded 
blue suit-jacket. Murchabaiw, diagnosed in the last stages of 
AIDS, does not believe he will live to see the results of this 
election. But he wanted to sound his voice. "I am happy now," he 
says with a bright smile after voting. "I have made a 
difference."

  In urban areas, lines snaked for more than a mile and angry 
voters sometimes tried to push their way into polling booths. 
Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at one restless crowd, 
injuring at least 12 people. Some polls stayed open all night, 
with people voting by flickering candlelight or under harsh 
fluorescent bulbs.

  "The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters 
as you can. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to 
disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against 
him," said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where 
thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands 
in the open-handed signal of the MDC.

  In rural areas, many polling stations stood empty by midday. 
Lines were not a problem, but transparency was.

  The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were 
chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government 
officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse. 
Old and illiterate voters were assisted by ZANU-PF officials who 
often directed them to vote for the incumbent president.

  At the Chaparandza Primary School in the rural Rushinga, Mary 
Mugumira, wearing a wool "USA 1997" hat, a long traditional 
dress, no shoes, and a confused look, asked the presiding 
officer to vote for her. He refused, but sent her to talk to the 
election officers - both of whom represented the ruling ZANU-PF 
party. A moment later she had decided, and the polling agent, 
smiling, put an "X" mark on the ballot in the space marked 
"Robert Mugabe, ZANU-PF."

  Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this 
election may bring change.

  "I am happy because I finally got to vote," says a jubilant 
Colin Chipepera, after waiting for more than 12 hours in one 
Harare voting line. "I think this is the final nail on the 
government's coffin. Even with all their tricks, there are too 
many of us."


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.

