    JAPAN : Japan PM vows to push new law for U.S. bases .
	

    Japan PM vows to push new law for U.S. bases .
	

    Eugene Moosa
	

    TOKYO 1997-03-31
	

    Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto , moving to tackle his biggest political problem , vowed on Monday to push through legislation to extend land leases for U.S. military bases beyond a May deadline .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's "Hashimoto".]
	

    "_ This is a question of whether we fulfil our obligation under the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty and so is a matter of our nation's existence , _" Hashimoto told a news conference .
	

    It was the first time Hashimoto had formally confirmed he would submit a bill to parliament revising the land expropriation laws , an issue which has become the most pressing domestic headache for his government .
	

    The new legislation will , in effect , give the Japanese government a temporary extension of its leases on land occupied by the U.S. bases after the current contracts expire .
	

    Hashimoto faces a May 14 deadline on the leases on land owned by some 3,000 people on Japan's southern Okinawa island , who are refusing to renew the contracts .
	

    Another 29,000 landowners have already agreed to renew their leases .
	

    At stake are a series of mainly small plots of land totalling 36 hectares ( 89 acres ) on 12 bases including the U.S. Air Force's huge Kadena Air Base .
	

    The case is now before an Okinawan land expropriation committee , whose decision to renew leases was not expected before the May deadline because_of a lengthy hearing process .
	

    Hashimoto also said he would not ask U.S. President Bill Clinton to withdraw U.S. troops from Japan because_of uncertainties in the region's security .
	

    Hashimoto is expected to visit Washington in late April for talks with Clinton .
	

    "_ At the U.S.-Japan summit talks , I have no intention of seeking the reduction or withdrawal of U.S. troops , including the Marines ( on Okinawa ) , _" Hashimoto said .
	

    Without the proposed revisions to the land laws , the government would be "_ illegally _" occupying the land .
	

    Hashimoto said the government must avoid such an "_ illegal _" state of affairs at all costs .
	

    Private land for U.S. bases is expropriated by the Japanese government , not the U.S. military itself .
	

    Local authorities on Okinawa , where about half of the 40,000 U.S. troops in Japan are stationed , want the bases closed by 2015 but Tokyo strongly opposes such a move .
	

    The Social Democratic Party , the LDP's ally in parliament , has said it will oppose the bill , but the main opposition Shinshinto ( New Frontier Party ) and its splinter Sun Party ( Taiyoto ) have indicated they may support the government bill .
	

    Okinawa Governor Masahide Ota has bitterly opposed the proposed revisions .
	

    The row between the central and Okinawan governments over U.S. bases flared up in September 1995 when three U.S. servicemen were arrested for the rape of an Okinawan schoolgirl .
