SINGAPORE : Jurong , SembCorp finalise merger .
	

    Jurong , SembCorp finalise merger .
	

    Angela Tan
	

    SINGAPORE 1997-03-31
	

    Sembawang Corp Ltd ( Sembcorp ) and Jurong Shipyard Ltd said on Monday they had completed negotiations on a proposed merger to create one of the world's largest shiprepair firms .
	

    "_ Our aim is to combine our market share and knock out the competition permanently , _" said chairman of SembCorp , Philip Yeo at a news conference .
	

    "_ The merger will be our answer to the direct competition from the Middle East . _"
	

    Combined , they have slightly more than 50 percent of the Singapore market and will have a total of nine dry docks , including three Very Large Crude Carrier-sized docks , Yeo said .
	

    The two companies also revealed changes to their merger proposal , first announced in November .
	

    Under the revised proposal , SembCorp will inject only its shipyard businesses , excluding some parts like its loss-making offshore engineering operations .
	

    Those to be included are Sembawang Shipyard , Bohai Sembawang Shipyard in Tianjin , China and PT Karimum Sembawang Shipyard in Indonesia , estimated to be worth Singapore $187.4 million .
	

    Jurong will issue 27.6 million new shares to SembCorp at S$6.80 each for the assets to be injected .
	

    The offshore engineering assets were excluded because SembCorp's strategy and focus were different from Jurong's , a joint statement said .
	

    The merger , which needs the approval of shareholders and the Stock Exchange of Singapore , is expected to be sealed by the third quarter of 1997 , company officials said .
	

    The merger will result in SembCorp's stake in Jurong rising to 38.6 percent from 23.4 percent and will trigger a mandatory general offer for the rest of Jurong shares .
	

    "_ Our aim is to get as much as we can and leave enough shares in the public for trading , _" Yeo said when asked how many Jurong shares SembCorp was interested in acquiring .
	

    Yeo said the company was looking to grow internationally and might bring in a third party as it progresses .
	

    He declined to say more but hinted the partner could be from outside Singapore .
	

    Jurong chairman Lua Cheng Eng , who will be chairman of the merged company , said the merger would allow Jurong to compete more effectively by offering more cost-effective services .
	

    On market concerns that Jurong was getting the raw end of the deal by receiving additional yard capacity during a marine industry slowdown , Lua said : "_ We recognised the cyclical nature of the industry .
	

    The proposed merger offers opportunity to reorganise ourselves and helps rationalise the industry .
	

    It places the merged entity in a better position to take full advantage of the next upturn when it occurs . _"
	

    Analysts told Reuters the revised deal was much fairer for Jurong with the exclusion of SembCorp's loss-making offshore engineering operations .
     Comments: we need "analysts" from this sentence as we have "they" in the following sentence, although I don't think that this sentence is particularly impotant in itself.
	

    They said they expected Jurong shares to rise sharply to the takeover bid of S$6.80 on Tuesday .
	

    Jurong shares closed down S$0.05 at S$6.55 on Monday .
	

    However , SembCorp shares were likely to come under pressure as their loss-making divisions remained intact , the analysts said .
	

    SembCorp shares ended down S$0.45 at S$6.95 on Monday .
	

    $-- Singapore newsroom ( 65 8703083 )
