
   It's not another ice age, but at least it's cooler

 





  As countries gear up for battles over ratifying the 1997 Kyoto 
Protocol, a recent study suggests that the world already has 
stepped along the path to a future cooler than it might have 
been.

  Researchers at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) 
in New York report that declining greenhouse-gas emissions since 
the late 1980s have slowed the growth rate of the atmosphere's 
ability to retain heat.

  The researchers link the slower rate to implementation of the 
1987 Montreal Protocol, in which countries agreed to phase out 
production of gases that erode the Earth's protective ozone 
layer. Known collectively as chlorofluorocarbons, these gases 
also trap heat thousands of times as effectively as carbon 
dioxide - the main focus of Kyoto.

  If the rate of increase in greenhouse gases had been maintained 
at the peak reached in 1980, the climate by 2050 would have 
reached temperatures not currently anticipated until 2100, when 
CO 2 concentrations in the atmosphere are expected to have 
doubled, the researchers calculate.

  The slowdown also "is due in part to the slower growth of 
methane and carbon dioxide, for reasons that aren't well 
understood and need more study," notes James Hansen, the NASA 
researcher who conducted the study with Makiko Sato, also with 
the GISS. The slower growth in carbon-dioxide concentrations 
could be due to increased CO 2 uptake by land-based plants and 
marine organisms, he suggests.

  The work grows out of a longer-term effort by the two scientists 
to explore paths to adjusting the globe's thermostat other than 
the politically charged effort embodied in the Kyoto Protocol. 
By focusing on carbon dioxide, the pact sets its sights on 
curbing the greenhouse gas held most responsible for 
contributing to the climate's warming during the past century. 
But curbs on CO 2 mean curbs on burning coal, oil, and natural 
gas - the fuels of booming economies.

  Drs. Hansen and Sato argue that policymakers can make 
significant headway by attacking other pollutants such as black 
carbon soot, ozone (smog) in the lower atmosphere, and methane 
from landfills, mining, and oil and gas production. The duo 
calculates that by reducing methane emissions by 30 percent, for 
example, the effect on climate would be comparable to the effect 
from cuts in CO 2 envisioned by the Kyoto Protocol during its 
first commitment period, which runs from 2008 to 2012. Their 
study appeared in the Dec. 18, 2001, issue of the Proceedings of 
the National Academy of Science.

  
back to top

  
Untitled


Copyright @ 2002 The Christian Science Monitor. All rights 
reserved.

