    WHX begins $40/shr offer for Dynamics Corp .
	

    NEW YORK 1997-03-31
	

    WHX Corp said Monday it began a cash tender offer for $40 a common share of Dynamics Corp of America .
	

    WHX said its tender offer is currently for up_to 649,000 shares common shares .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for "it" in s2 - and following sentences (but these cannot be maked as well), although the title also contains "WHX" (the referent) which could be inferred in all following cases, although it may read a little oddly.]
	

    When added to its current holding of 109,600 shares , a 2.9 percent stake , the shares would equal 19.9 percent of Dynamic's outstanding common stock , it said .
	

    WHX said that if Dynamics amends its "_ poison pill _" anti-takeover defense trigger to below 20 percent , then the percentage to be bought in its offer would be automatically reduced by a commensurate amount .
	

    It said the offer is not subject to any minimum number of shares being tendered or to financing .
	

    As_of December 31 , it said it had more than $400 million of available cash and cash equivalents .
	

    The expiration , proration and withdrawal dates for the tender offer are 12 midnight , New York City time , on April 29 , it said .
	

    WHX , a holding company whose principal unit is Wheeling , Pittsburgh Steel Corp , said that late last week it sent a letter to Dynamics proposing a cash merger at $40 a share , giving the merger deal a value of about $160 million .
	

    In its proposal , WHX said it was prepared to raise its offer if additional information that Dynamics may provide proves that a higher price was warranted .
	

    WHX also said it was not interested in increasing the equity stake which Dynamics holds in CTS Corp or in in changing the nature of the relationship between those two companies .
	

    Mary Jo Cisternino , a spokeswoman for Dynamics , said executives of the company were in a conference and could not comment immediately .
	

    Greenwich , Conn. , $- based Dynamics is a maker of electronic components , mobile vans and transportable shelters for specialized electronic and medical diagnostic equipment .
	

    It also makes portable electric housewares and commercial appliances , air distribution equipment , specialized air conditioning equipment and genreator sets .
	

    It currently holds a 44.1 holds percent stake in CTS Corp , whose shares are listed on the NYSE .
	

    WHX said it intends to solicit proxies for the annual meeting of Dynamics scheduled on May 2 , to elect four nominees , which would constitute a majority of the board .
	

    It said it would move for the bylaws adoption allowing holders of at_least 9.9 percent of Dynamics' outstanding common stock to call a special meeting and permit the removal of directors at any time without cause .
	

    After the tender offer is completed , it said it plans to take all appropriate actions necessary to push through a cash merger in which all stockholders receive $40 a share .
	

    So that it may vote the shares it acquires in the tender offer at Dynamics' upcoming annual meeting , WHX said it will not be deemed to be duly tendered , and will not be accepted for purchase , unless they are tendered as_of the March 14 , record date for the annual meeting , or are accompanied by an irrevocable proxy from a holder as_of that date .
