	
A cargo ship intercepted in the Channel after a tip-off that it might be carrying terrorist materials was today given the all clear, police said. 
	
	
 The 450ft long vessel Nisha, carrying 26,000 tonnes [metric tons] of raw sugar, was stopped on Friday morning [21 December] amid fears it could be transporting noxious, hazardous or dangerous substances. 
	
	
 But after a detailed examination of the ship, which is currently moored off the Isle of Wight, nothing suspicious was found, police said. 
	
	
 Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations, said: "New information, combined with the relentless efforts of scientific experts, our detailed knowledge of the ship and its movements, and very careful examination of the vessel over the last three days leads us to be completely satisfied that the Nisha is not a suspicious vessel and does not pose a danger." 
	
	
 The Nisha was halted by anti-terrorist police, the Royal Navy and Customs and Excise officials after a tip-off that it contained "terrorist material" and the Royal Navy frigate HMS Sutherland intercepted her in international waters, about 30 miles south of Beachy Head. 
	
	
 The MV Nisha is operated by the Great Eastern Shipping Company, based in Bombay, India. 
	
	
 It had recently stopped in the east African country of Djibouti, a neighbour of Somalia, which has been linked to Usama Bin Ladin's al Qa'ida terror network. 
	
	
 The ship had sailed from Mauritius and was carrying a cargo of sugar to the Tate &amp;amp; Lyle refinery on the Thames at Silvertown in east London, according to the company. 
	
	
 Police had earlier indicated they expected the search to take a number of weeks, because of the vessel's size and design, but experts completed the job today. 
	
	
 Anti-terrorist officers said they were also satisfied that the ship's crew and owners had not committed any offence. 
	
	
 Mr Veness said the ship was now in a position to continue its journey, but completion of the voyage was still subject to consultation with all interested parties. 
	
	
 He added: "We have not detected any signs of interference and we do not believe that the seals of the holds have been interfered with. 
	
	
 "We had anticipated that detailed examination of the ship might take rather longer. This was to ensure that there was no chance of risk to the public. 
	
	
 "The cargo ship Nisha was intercepted and boarded as part of an intelligence-led operation. 
	
	
 "This was the right and proper course of action to take. Thankfully, the ship has been proved not to pose a danger to the public." 
	
	
 Mr Veness praised the crew and ship's owners for their co-operation and said: "We remain vigilant and are totally committed to ensuring the safety of the public. 
	
	
 "We would take similar action in the future if there was a potential risk to the public." 
	
	
 The Nisha's cargo of raw sugar is owned by the Mauritius Sugar Syndicate, which had chartered the vessel, and the vessel was due to dock in east London yesterday. 
	
	
 The chairman of the British arm of the Great Eastern Shipping Company, Sudhir Mulji, confirmed that the vessel had stopped over at Djibouti before its current journey to drop off American grain as part of a food aid shipment. 
	
	
 The ship then went on to Mauritius to pick up the sugar and left on November 20 to transport it to Britain. 
	
	
 The Great Eastern Shipping Company, which has offices in India, London, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, is a leading Indian shipping and offshore service provider with a fleet of 38 cargo-carrying vessels.	


