UK : London's Globe , an experiment in theatre history .
London's Globe , an experiment in theatre history .
Helen Smith
LONDON 1996-08-20
In a theatre open to London's often rainy skies , a troupe of actors begins a risky experiment on Wednesday to discover what William Shakespeare's plays were like when first peformed 400 years ago .
The Globe Theatre is a replica of the 20-sided wood-and-thatch arena which Shakespeare part-owned and where his finest works , including "_ Macbeth , _" "_ Hamlet _" and "_ King Lear _" , were staged during his lifetime .
It is the realisation of the dream of American actor-director Sam Wanamaker , who died of cancer in 1993 , just as the theatre's wooden framework was being put in place .
Wanamaker had waged a 40-year battle against bureacracy and commercial greed to get the new Globe built just yards ( metres ) from the site of the original on the south bank of the Thames , opposite St Paul's Cathedral .
His vision is still central to the 30 million pound ( $46 million ) Globe , which begins a "_ prologue season _" on Wednesday with a production of "_ Two Gentlemen of Verona . _"
"_ Anyone who worked with Sam was very much influenced by what he wanted to put together , _" said Lennie James , who plays one of the "_ Two Gentlemen . _"
Interviewed under grey skies in the Globe's auditorium on Tuesday , James said the place feels permeated with a sense of history .
"_ When ( artistic director Mark Rylance ) first welcomed us onto the stage saying we were the first actors in 400 years to stand here , I got a real buzz , _" he said .
     Comments: the name of the director in one of the important sentences, but it is not relevant to the text.
Wanamaker's aim was to recreate , as far as possible , the conditions that Shakespeare's actors worked under in the 16th and 17th centuries .
The audience , many of them standing , would have been crowded around the stage ready to heckle the actors and punish bad performances with volleys of rotten fruit .
The actors had little time to learn their roles and would not have seen the full script , which was kept carefully guarded for fear that it would be stolen by another theatre .
The Globe has been carefully recreated from historical records and what could be gleaned from excavation of the original , destroyed in 1644 by England's puritan rulers .
But little is still known about the theatres of the day .
Rylance said he hoped that working before a live audience would help show up anything the historians got wrong .
"_ We do not claim that this is it , _" said the boyish Rylance . "_ This is the best we can do in 1996 .
There_ 's bound to be more evidence and we look forward to it . _"
Notwithstanding his search for authenticity , Rylance's production will depart drastically from Shakespearian traditions .
The cast of "_ Two Gentlemen of Verona _" will include women and black actors , both unheard of in Shakespeare's day , and the play is set in modern Italy .
Even less traditional , the Globe will be selling cushions for the hard seats and raincoats $-- thunderstorms are in the weather forecast for the opening night .
The choice of "_ Two Gentleman of Verona _" , one of Shakespeare's lesser-known plays , has raised critics' eyebrows , but Rylance says it is symbolic .
It was written before the original Globe was built in 1599 , just as the prologue predates the scheduled official opening of its successor in June 1997 , he said .
	
	

