	
JAMMU, Apr 2 -- Chief Minister Dr. Farooq Abdullah today accused Pakistan army for breeding terrorism in India to remain in power against the wishes of their people who want peace. 
	
	
 'For their sustenance and survival, Pak generals have been throttling the voice of Pakistanis who wish to live in friendship and cordiality with their neighbours', the Chief Minister said while addressing a function organised by United Public High School at Channi Himat here this afternoon. 
	
	
 The Chief Minister described Pakistan as mother of terrorism and said if the world has to rid itself from this menace, the perpetrators across the border had to be dealt with firmly. He said mere positioning of army at borders was not enough as infiltration was still continuing. The ultras were indulging in blood-shed and their lunaticism has touched such heights that they were not even sparing the worship places, he said and referred to the attack in Raghunath bazaar and temple complex. He cautioned the people against the enemy and said that extra vigil will certainly help in nabbing suspects. 
	
	
 Reiterating that Pakistan will not give up terror, the Chief Minister said that ultimately the demon they have reared will eat up their own vitals. 'Those digging graves for others, get engraved themselves', he said while citing the example of Afghanistan. He said Pakistan is attempting hard to put India in communal flames so that forces are withdrawn from the borders to deal with the internal situations, thereby leaving field day for ultras to cross over to this side. 
	
	
 Dr Abdullah also dwelt on the spread of education saying that teaching younger generation means steering the nation to prosperity and progress. 'Concentrate on those today who are the builders of nation tomorrow', he asked the teachers community while appreciating the involvement of parents in career building of their wards. 
	
	
 Responding to the demands put forth in a memorandum by the residents of Chhanni Himmat, Narwal, Malik Marker Bye-Pass, Chhanni Bija, Chhanni Rama, Chhanni Kamala and Ambedkar Nagar, the Chief Minister said that he will get examined the issue regarding addition of 11th and 12th classes in the area. He called for launching a coaching class for various competitive exams, as the area has no such facility. 
	
	
 Dr Abdullah also dwelt on various social services in the area and said that answer to meeting the growing demand of tap water in various localities of Jammu is tapping of Chenab water for the purpose. In this regard, he said, a Rs 400 crore scheme had been prepared a few years back that is currently under process for implementation. 
	
	
 Expressing concern over dwindling moral values in the society, the Chief Minister said that youngsters must get inspiration from their glorious past and respect their parents and teachers. He said due regard to elders and teachers is imperative for harmonious society. 
	
	
 Dr. Abdullah presented best teacher award and appreciated the performance of student artists who presented cultural items. 
	
	
 Minister for Sports and Labour, Mr. Harbans Singh was the chief guest. He also spoke on the occasion. 
	
	
 Among others present were, Mr. Mohammed Syed Akhoon and Mrs Bimla Luthra, MLAs [Ministers of Legislative Assembly] besides students and parents. 
	
	
 Mr Akhoon presented a memento to the Chief Minister on behalf of the management of the school.	


