
   Officials bristle at US human rights report

 





  
Response is being prepared

  
Khalil Fleihan

  
Daily Star correspondent

  Local authorities have expressed dissatisfaction - but not 
surprise - with regard to excerpts about Lebanon in the US State 
Department's annual report on human rights, a copy of which has 
been delivered to the Foreign Ministry.

  An official source who described the reaction on Tuesday said 
the criticism was an annual event and emphasized that it was not 
directed at human rights in Lebanon only, but covered several 
other countries in as well.

  A copy of the report, which criticizes what it described as the 
weakening of the central government's prerogatives, has been 
handed over by the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in 
Awkar, Carol Kalin, to the Foreign Ministry's acting 
director-general, Naji Abi Assi.

  The source said that the ministry would soon deliver copies of 
the report to the various ministries concerned, especially the 
Interior and Municipalities Ministry, prior to relaying its 
observations to the State Department in Washington.

  The report was seen as discrediting Lebanon by portraying the 
country as being undemocratic or uncivilized and abusing human 
rights, the source added. According to the source, the 
authorities' dissatisfaction with the contents of the report has 
been conveyed to US Ambassador Vincent Battle, who returned from 
Washington on Saturday after participating in a conference of 
American envoys posted to Arab countries.

  Each year, Lebanon sends an explanation to the State Department 
about the factors outside of the government's control.

  The source said the most serious point in the report was an 
observation that the judiciary was subjected to political 
pressure, but referring to it as being "independent in 
principle."

  The report's reference to intelligence agents' monitoring the 
activities of opposition politicians and tapping the phones of 
certain government leaders "is a serious matter and harms 
Lebanon's image as a democratic country," the source added.

  On the other hand, the report praised the role played by the 
Lebanese press, describing it as containing daily criticism of 
the government and its practices.

  
Your feedback is important to us!

  We invite all our readers to share with us their views and 
comments about this article.

  
Please type in your comment below and press 'submit'

  You must fill in your name and email address just in case we 
need to get in touch with you.

  The editor may decide to publish your comment as a letter to the 
editor;

  Your personal information will be kept confidential and will 
never be disclosed to anyone

  
Name

  
E-mail

  
Address

  
Tel

  
FAX

  
Please contact me as soon as possible regarding this matter.

  
DS

Copyright@ 2000 The Daily Star. All rights reserved.



