 SOUTH KOREA : Students isolated on Korean reunification issue .
Students isolated on Korean reunification issue .
Lim Yun-suk
SEOUL 1996-08-20
South Korea's militant students find themselves isolated from a hostile public as they press a violent campaign for reunification with North Korea .
Heroes of the battle for democracy in the late 1980s , when the middle classes rallied behind them , the radical students have now alienated ordinary South Koreans by embracing Pyongyang's blueprint for a single Korea .
Authorities say their leaders are Communist stooges blocking their efforts to bring peace to the divided Korean peninsula .
Tuesday's assault by riot police on Yonsei University to flush out several thousand undergraduates who had occupied two buildings was the worst campus violence since President Kim Young-sam took power in 1993 .
Critics partly blame Kim for the unrest , saying it is the outcome of confusion caused by what they see as his lack of a coherent policy on the North .
Yet there is little sympathy for the methods adopted by the young protesters , even_though anti-government protests that pit rock-throwing students against riot police have long been a fixture of campus life .
"_ Things have changed .
What the students are doing now was accepted in the 1960s , 70s and 80s .
It is not fit for the 90s , _" said Kim Sung-joo , a professor of political science at Sungkyunkwan University .
Korean students have traditionally acted as the conscience of the nation , speaking out in times of national crisis .
College campuses were the breeding grounds for fearless student pro-democracy fighters willing to sacrifice their lives for the cause .
They helped end military-backed rule and usher in democracy .
But as democracy began to take root and communism crumbled worldwide , many students abandoned their socialist leanings .
"_ Students calling for reunification is fine , but their method is too violent and extreme , _" said Kim Ho-jin , a professor at Korea University .
"_ The government also is to blame as they cracked down too harshly , _" he added .
Another academic , with links to the main opposition National Congress for New Politics , placed the blame for Tuesday's mayhem at the feet of the government .
"_ South-North Korea relations are not just going through a cool or rigid period , they have totally broken down .
And who is responsible for this ?
No one but the government . _"
"_ If the government had done a better job with South-North Korea relations , students would have no reason to be out_there .
As the government is confused about its North Korea policy , how can we blame the students ? _" he said .
South and North Korea have remained technically at war since their 1950-53 conflict , but relations worsened after the death of the North's Great Leader Kim Il-sung two years ago .
Since_then , there have been no official government contacts between the two Koreas .
South Korea and the United States have proposed four-party peace talks together with the North and China , but Pyongyang has yet to respond .
The students support Pyongyang's vision for a reunified Korea that would leave the governments of both Koreas intact .
Elderly South Koreans still remember the Korean War , and analysts say that is part of the reason why students have not been able to get support from the public .
"_ In the past , students fought for democracy calling for the end of the militant government , which the public supported .
But reunification is another matter as many have been through the war , _" said Kim at Korea University .
"_ The students are simply calling for reunification because we are one .
Everyone knows that , and have for a long time , but how it should be done is different . _"
South Korean authorities had called the protests at Yonsei a "_ pro-North Korean riot _" , but analysts said they were playing up the North Korean threat to garner public support for the crackdown on campus dissent .
"_ Only a handful of them are really pro-North Korea .
The government knows this , but is playing along that line to receive public support , _" said the opposition academic .
	
	