
Britain's Prescott Pushes for Kyoto Pact Backing

 





  VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Kyoto Protocol on reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions must be ratified even without U.S. 
support, British Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott told an 
international conference on business and the environment on 
Friday.

  Prescott said that while the U.S. decision to reject the Kyoto 
agreement is a cause for concern, pressure will be maintained on 
the Bush administration to go further with its current voluntary 
emission-reduction targets.

  "This is the world's best chance of dealing with a very serious 
threat to it," Prescott told delegates from 65 nations at the 
Globe 2002 conference in Vancouver that ended on Friday.

  Prescott, Britain's front man in pushing the accord, said the 
United States until recently was critical of the science that 
led to the Kyoto pact but has now accepted it, and he remains 
optimistic that the goals of the United States and of other 
signatory nations would converge.

  The Kyoto Protocol calls on countries to reduce emissions of 
so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are 
blamed by many scientists for global warming, to pre-1990 levels 
by 2012.

  Named for the Japanese city where it was approved, the pact was 
signed by 84 countries, including the United States and Canada. 
Fifty-five countries responsible for 55 percent of emissions in 
1990 must ratify it for it to take effect. Forty-nine countries 
had done so as of mid-March, according to the United Nations.

  Europe's environment ministers have agreed that all 15 EU 
nations should adhere to the Kyoto Protocol. Ratification could 
win support at an EU summit later this month in Barcelona, 
Spain. The process is expected to be completed by June 1.

  Prescott said the British program aims to cut emissions by 20 
percent, and the country is now half way to that goal.

  The issue has pitted business groups, who claim the accord will 
hurt the global economy, against environmentalists, who warn of 
the dire effects from global warming such as higher ocean levels 
and destruction of various plants and animal species.

  Canada is among the countries that have pledged to ratify the 
accord. Canada's Environmental Minister, David Anderson, is 
under pressure from the country's energy producers to follow the 
U.S. position.

  Prescott came to Anderson's support on Friday, agreeing that 
financial figures quoted by Kyoto opponents in Canada about the 
potential damage to the Canadian economy were "pure fiction."

  A study by the Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters Association 
said the accord would cost the Canadian economy up to C$40 
billion by 2010, but a Dutch report released earlier this week 
said it would only be C$727 million.

  "At the least the difference between some estimates clearly 
shows a great deal more talking and assessment is needed," 
Reuters quoted Prescott as telling the delegates, who 
represented both business and environmental groups.

