	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 San Francisco, April 1 (CNA) -- Current relations between the Republic of China and the United States are in unprecedented good shape, the de facto ROC ambassador to Washington, D.C., said in Las Vegas Monday. 
	
	
 Since the United States switched its diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing in 1979, ROC Representative to the United States Chen Chien-jen said substantive Taiwan-U.S. relations have never been as close as they are at the present time. 
	
	
 Chen made the remarks at a luncheon given by himself in honor of directors and supervisors of the World Federation of Taiwanese Chambers of Commerce (WFTCC), who were meeting in Las Vegas. 
	
	
 Chen cited several events to back up his positive and optimistic views on ROC-U.S. relations, including U.S. concerns for security in the Taiwan Strait, continued quantitative and qualitative increases in U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, upgrading of high-level engagement, as well as explicit support by the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services for Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization (WHO). 
	
	
 In his view, Chen said, the ever firmer U.S. support for Taiwan partly stems from its recognition of the island's remarkable progress in democratization and liberalization. 
	
	
 Noting that the two sides of the Taiwan Strait have been admitted to the World Trade Organization (WTO), Chen said Taiwan and mainland China will be able to engage in constructive interactions under the WTO framework. 
	
	
 Moreover, Chen said, Taiwan can from now on conduct trade and economic exchanges with all other WTO members under the principles of equality, fairness and reciprocity. 
	
	
 The current WFTCC meeting has focused discussions on how to pool the resources and wisdom of Taiwan businesspeople around the world to expand their share of the world market as well as to help promote Taiwan's bid to join the WHO. 
	
	
 Chen said he admires all Taiwan businesspeople's patriotism and contribution to Taiwan's and their resident countries' economic development over the years. 
	
	
 More than 600 representatives of Taiwanese Chambers of Commerce from 49 countries on six continents are attending the WFTCC meeting. New ROC Deputy Representative to the United States Tsai Ming-hsian and Chang Fu-mei, chairwoman of the Overseas Chinese Affairs commission, are also attending.	


