	
China has launched three unmanned spacecraft consecutively and exhibited to the world the capsules recovered. People have seen the true features of these space capsules. What exactly then is a manned spaceship? 
	
	
 It is learned that the manned spaceship will have a liftoff weight of about eight tonnes, and is less than 10 meters long and 3.5 meters in diameter. It can carry two to three astronauts and continue to cruise in space for more than 20 days. 
	
	
 The spaceship has been designed with comprehensive reference to the Russian spaceship Soyuz. The spaceship is composed of three cylindrical capsules, with the orbiter capsule fitted on the forefront. Its interior is equipped with corresponding facilities for space observation and space drug and microgravity tests. The return capsule, connected to the orbiter capsule, is the cockpit of the astronauts and the only capsule that will reenter the atmosphere for landing. Three reclining seats will be installed in the capsule for astronauts. Instrument panel, control shaft, and optical telescope will be installed below the seats. At the rear of the spaceship is the propulsion capsule to provide thrust to the spaceship in orbital control and return to earth. In accordance with the plan, China's manned spaceship will conduct a series of scientific tests and earth observation after it is launched into space. 
	
	
 Space technology will not only be used for civilian, but also for military purposes, and there is no exception for China. It is speculated that the spaceship will almost certainly be equipped with facilities relating to military observation and attack on enemy satellites. Therefore, the manned spaceflight will enable China to have preliminary space combat capability. 
	
	
 According to the experience of the United States and Russia, one of the greatest problems of manned spaceship is inadequate power supply. The solar energy batteries usually cannot meet the needs of numerous equipment on a spaceship. However, it is understood that China has successfully resolved this problem to provide sufficient power supply for its spaceship. After completing the orbital flight, the spaceship will adjust itself to the return position by following ground command and ignite the engine to change to the orbit for returning to the earth. Before gliding into the atmosphere, the orbiter and propulsion capsules will be discarded. 
	
	
 By referring to the designs of the Russia spaceship Soyuz, it is very possible that China will apply the lift control technology in its manned spaceship. This technology will enable the spaceship to limit its mobility in the atmosphere. In the altitude of about several thousands of meters, the return capsule will eject the parachutes to further reduce the speed. It is reported that in the past China's recovery site for returning satellites was in the mountains of Sichuan Province. 
	
	
 To facilitate recovery and rescue in future manned spaceflight, the recovery site will be located in sparsely populated grassland or the wilderness. Judging from the selection of recovery sites for the two previous flights, the site for recovering the manned spaceship may be situated in the grassland of Inner Mongolia. 
	
	
 The next step after the land recovery, China may change to recovering the manned spaceship on the sea. 
	
	
 An informed source has said that it can be seen that the designs for China's manned spaceflight have taken into consideration future modifications. For the next flight, the top of the spaceship's orbiter capsule may be installed with a docking module for docking tests between two spaceships. The concerned person said that this is a prelude to China's space station development plan.	


