 SLOVAKIA : Slovak c.bank moves failing to hit target $- analysts .
Slovak c.bank moves failing to hit target $- analysts .
Tatiana Vacova
BRATISLAVA 1996-08-20
Measures by the National Bank of Slovakia to ease the country's money supply may not be working , as a mounting liquidity surplus continues to drive prices down on the money market , analysts said on Tuesday .
They said the market's burgeoning liquidity , which is seen driving rates down by some two percentage points to about 10 percent on all maturities , points to the ineffectiveness of the NBS's recent moves to take money out_of circulation .
"_ The central bank will have to take other measures to stem the money supply , as the effect of the tool it chose to do so is partly eliminated by short-term foreign capital inflows , _" Jozef Bozek of Tatra Banka told Reuters .
Last month , the NBS drove interbank interest rates to over 14 percent when , in a move to curtail banks' short-term lending , hiked minimum reserves significantly as_of August 1 .
That , dealers said , in tandem with an earlier hike in the Lombard rate to 15 percent from a previous 13 percent , appears to be backfiring as speculative capital floods the country taking advantage of attractive real interest rates and a steady currency .
The Slovak key money supply measure , M2 , rose 21.5 percent year-on-year , compared to a full-year target of a 11.6 percent expansion year-on-year .
While some dealers said that as long as the rates hang above 10 percent foreign speculators will remain interested in the crown , though Robert Hakszer of Slovenska Sporitelna noted : "_ In the longer-term , rates could slowly ease to 10-12 percent , spoiling some of the crown's attraction . _"
"_ It would be enough to bring rates to below the Czech Republic's level to cut down a_bit on crown speculation , _" he added .
The Prague interbank offered rate ( PRIBOR ) for one month funds on Tuesday averaged 12.67 percent compared to 13.05 percent on the Bratislava interbank offered rate ( BRIBOR ) .
The NBS also recently moved to strengthen the crown within the plus or minus five percent band of a dollar/mark basket midpoint it uses to fix the currency daily , further attracting foreign capital .
"_ The revalued crown boosted the central bank foreign exchange reserves , and eventually the market liquidity , _" said Dalibor Cernicka , a dealer with Istrobanka .
"_ Even if foreign investors pull out , their package is not so significant to have any major impact on the country , though it could temporarily toss the crown exchange rate , _" Bozek said .
The NBS hard currency reserves rose to $3.71 billion as_of August 14 , from $3.43 billion on July 24 , pouring out onto the money market and catching analysts who were expecting a puacity of funds off guard .
No official figures are available yet , but analysts estimate that some six billion crowns flooded onto the market from the reserves , while the same amount entered through maturing NBS liquidity bills , another NBS sterilisation tool .
NBS officials were not available for comment , but the central bank has said it is still "_ early _" to analyse the effect of the measures , and warned it could even resort to imposing credit limits on banks if its money supply measures would not work .
 