JAPAN : Japan banks relieved as stocks close within range .
	

    Japan banks relieved as stocks close within range .
	

    Fumiko Fujisaki
	

    TOKYO 1997-03-31
	

    Japan's beleaguered banks got a break on Monday when the stock market ended the financial year above a key level , helping them avoid losses on their large share portfolios from pushing them into the red .
	

    The Nikkei index of 225 leading shares bounced back from a late sell-off to close at 18,003.40 points .
	

    Many banks had based their financial projections on a close of 18,000 to 18,500 , industry analysts say , meaning they will not have to take further unplanned write-offs on their stock holdings .
	

    Some market watchers said government-backed money appeared to be behind the scenes in helping the late market rally .
	

    "_ It was important to keep the Nikkei above 18,000 to keep Japanese financial institutions slightly above water , _" said a foreign stock broker .
	

    The close on Monday was hardly great news for Japan , representing a fall of 16 percent from the beginning of the fiscal year .
	

    But it was still a healthy rise from the level of 17,303.65 on January 10 when fears mounted that sharp stock price falls may force Japanese banks to postpone their problem loan write-offs or post losses .
	

    While Japan's top 20 banks must take appraisal losses worth about 1.7 trillion yen ( $13.7 billion ) on shareholdings in 1996/97 , it is unlikely that many will fall into the red , industry analysts said .
	

    Posting losses cuts a bank's capital cushion and reduces capital adequacy ratios set by the Bank for International Settlements ( BIS ) , further undermining the already-tainted credibility of Japanese banks .
	

    Japanese banks have traditionally held large chunks of shares in other companies , many of them customers .
	

    In the past , the unrealised profits on these shareholdings have helped burnish the banks' balance sheets and have provided a useful way of getting some of their problem loans off their books .
	

    Analysts said the top 20 banks would stick to their plans to dispose of about 5.0 trillion yen ( $40.3 billion ) worth of problem loans for 1996/97 despite the appraisal losses .
	

    Thanks_to declines in market interest rates , operating profits at big banks are estimated to be about 10 percent larger than the 4.0 trillion yen ( $32.3 billion ) the banks had forecast for 1996/97 .
	

    However , the case of Nippon Credit Bank Ltd ( NCB ) is different .
	

    NCB is likely to post losses for the second straight year in 1996/97 to write off big problem loans to recover investors' confidence in the bank , analysts said .
	

    NCB is the most vulnerable among the big banks .
	

    It is estimated to begin posting unrealised losses on shareholdings when the Nikkei stands at 18,500 .
	

    Second-most vulnerable is the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd , which is estimated to post shareholding losses when the Nikkei falls to 17,600 or below .
	

    Yukiko Ohara , analyst at UBS Securities Ltd , said she expects some big banks to unveil drastic problem loan disposal plans in 1997/98 as Japan will introduce new capital adequacy standards , known as the prompt corrective action ( PCA ) system , in April next year .

    Under the new system , banks are strictly required to set aside loan-loss provisions in line with global accounting standards .
	

    A bank can be ordered to take action to improve its health , and can be liquidated if its capital adequacy ratio falls below zero percent and inspectors pinpoint inadequacies .
	

    According_to the Finance Ministry , Japan's deposit-taking financial institutions had 29 trillion yen ( $233 billion ) worth of problem loans at the end of last September .
	

    But many analysts say the size is twice to triple the size of the official figure .
	

    ( $1=124 yen )
