	
US President Bush has ordered the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to assassinate America's opponents wherever in the world they may be! 
	
	
 This directive is issued at a time when the American government is claiming to lead the fight against terrorism throughout the world. 
	
	
 When the Imam (may God be satisfied with him) issued the fatwa against Salman Rushdie for insulting the Prophet (peace be upon him) and the holy Koran, the countries that are so-called supporters of human rights protested against the fatwa. They said it was an act of terrorism that was against international law and said it crushed human rights principles! In a coordinated move the European countries all recalled their ambassadors from Tehran in order to put the Islamic Republic of Iran under pressure. 
	
	
 By clarifying the Imam's edict the Islamic Republic of Iran made the people of the world understand that insulting the Prophet was in fact violating the rights of millions of people throughout the world. This was not simply a directive from God that was confirmed by all the clerics throughout the Islamic world. 
	
	
 Now the United States has issued an assassination order against millions of human beings without having any proof, reason or documentation. The only reason for this would be opposition to the United States. It would therefore be appropriate for all Islamic countries to withdraw their ambassadors from the United States. If the European countries were honest in the withdrawal of their ambassadors from Iran, blaming Iran for violating human rights, then they should recall their ambassadors from the United States. After all the United States is not violating the rights of one human being, but many many human beings. 
	
	
 It seems that following the blow that the Americans received on September 11 in New York and Washington, the United States is determined to take justice to pre-historic times. It is obvious no country will put up with this cruelty. No one will allow this human achievement, which is the discovery of God-given human rights, which is achieved after thousands of years of research, to be wasted away. 
	
	
 The United States thinks that it can silence the justice-seeking cries of the peoples of the world with the sound of explosions from 7-ton bombs and it thinks that it can justify its own inhuman behavior in the shadow of this noise. Attachments: Image-1.gif Image-2.gif	


