	
MADRID, Sept 14 (AFP) -- Interpol on Friday released previously confidential search warrants with vital details about the life and activities of Usamah bin-Ladin, the main suspect in Tuesday's deadly attacks in the United States. 
	
	
 The two warrants -- from 1998 and 2000 -- were released at a press conference here by Interpol President Jesus Espigares of Spain and Secretary General Ronald K. Noble of the United States. 
	
	
 The 1998 warrant charged that Bin-Ladin, a Saudi billionaire housed as a "guest" in Afghanistan, was involved in the 1994 murder of two Germans in Syrte, Libya. The file said that Libya had demanded his extradition. 
	
	
 The other warrant, from April 4, 2000, was drafted at the request of the US Government and includes a detailed description of the man who tops the US Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) most wanted list. 
	
	
 It includes everything from biographical information -- Bin-Ladin was born March 10, 1957 in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, -- to a physical description -- black hair, brown eyes, 1.96 meters (6 feet, 4 inches) tall and about 67 kilograms (148 pounds) -- to the various aliases he uses. 
	
	
 "He may walk with a cane," the study says, noting that he speaks Arabic and "Southwest Asian countries and the Middle East are the places where he may travel around." 
	
	
 The study also notes that the United States offered five million dollars (5.4 million euros) to anyone who had information that could lead to Bin-Ladin's arrest. 
	
	
 Espigares and Noble also said that Interpol has created a task force, named "September 11," after the date on which two hijacked airplanes crashed into the World Trade Center in New York City and another hit the Pentagon in Washington, leaving thousands dead. 
	
	
 The force, based in Lyon, France, will work non-stop to "help to filter any information coming from Interpol country members," Noble said. 
	
	
 Interpol will meet in Budapest from September 24-29, where member countries will discuss methods of bringing those responsible for the attacks to justice, Espigares and Noble said. 
	
	
 US authorities have asked Interpol to organize a police team specialized in identifying victims, they said, refusing to comment further on the status of Interpol's collaboration, saying, "We do not want to do anything which could undermine FBI investigations." 
	
	
 "There are moments in every nation's history which are marked forever. For me, for my country, it's the death of President (John F.) Kennedy. For Spain, (it's) the military forces attacking democracy. But for the world, September 11 is a day that will mark the entire world," Noble said.	


