    Please believe ME , I '_ m ill ME sufferers are sick of doctors not taking them seriously and have made a cinema ad to win support for their case .
	

    John Illman examines the problems they are facing .
	

    WE ALL like to be taken seriously , especially when we are feeling ill .
	

    It is easy enough if you have chicken pox or some other common illness with well-defined physical symptoms .
	

    But it is not so easy if you have a condition which is not susceptible to diagnosis and has no clear-cut signs or symptoms .
	

    You may be written off as a malingerer or a neurotic or , perhaps even worse , as someone who must be gently humoured back to health .
	

    Alternatively , you may be shown the door with a_few sharp words more in keeping with a tyrannical consultant than your friendly neighbourhood GP .
	

    We have all heard stories about GPs alleged to have given patients short shrift with remarks like : & bquo ; Throw away your crutches .
	

    It '_ s your head that needs them , not your legs . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; Women of your age imagine aches and pains ?
	

    are you sure you '_ re not attention seeking ?
	

    & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; We all have to die sometimes . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; I '_ m not prepared to do any tests .
	

    They cost money . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; You are a menace to society ?
	

    a pest .
	

    I wish you '_ d take yourself away from me . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; You middle class women have nothing_else to worry about . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; It '_ s one of those things you silly young women get . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; Stop feeling sorry for yourself .
	

    I have patients with real illnesses ?
	

    patients who are dying from cancer . & equo ;
	

    & bquo ; Go home and have more babies . & equo ;
	

    Surgery encounters like these have become increasingly common over the past 30 years with the erosion of the traditional divisions between sickness and health , which have led to , among other things , the medicalisation of & bquo ; anxiety . & equo ; .
	

    Until the launch of the so-called & bquo ; minor tranquillisers & equo ; in the early Sixties , anxiety was seen as an inevitable everyday experience , and , moreover , as a valuable psychological spur compelling us to take stock of things if they went wrong .
	

    It was not something you took to the doctor ?
	

    until Valium and Librium arrived on the market .
	

    Since_then the fashion has changed again .
	

    Doctors are now increasingly reluctant to prescribe tranquillisers for fear of being sued by patients who become addicted to them .
	

    What this means is that good old_fashioned self-reliance could become a new health vogue of the Nineties .
	

    The anxious and the worried may seek solace outside the surgery .
	

    According_to one theory , held by some psychiatrists , patients may find doctors increasingly unsympathetic to their plight .
	

    This theory has it that , as a breed , doctors like to be masters of every possible situation , and that this may even be a factor in their selection of medicine as a career .
	

    But this , it is claimed , may make them more vulnerable than most to negative emotions when they are shown to be powerless .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    This may result in swift and brutal treatment of patients with complaints which are difficult to diagnose .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    Admittedly , some may have totally unrealistic expectations of the NHS '_ s power to keep them fit .
	

    They may be neurotics or malingerers or both .
	

    But others may be worthy candidates for the very best of the NHS .
	

    Patients claiming to have Myalgic Encephalomyelitis ( ME ) may come into the latter category .
	

    Symptoms include fatigue , night sweats , weight loss and exhaustion .
	

    While some doctors recognise the condition , others question its existence , attributing problems to causes such as depression .
	

    The ME Action Campaign is waging a major campaign to validate ME as a disease .
	

    The alleged remarks by doctors to patients quoted above were taken from an Action Campaign survey highlighting & bquo ; bad & equo ; treatment .
	

    This week the ME Action Campaign released stills from a forthcoming cinema commercial .
	

    Featuring a teenage girl whose life is totally disrupted by ME , it is designed to win public support for ME sufferers .
	

    The Action Campaign is also seeking support from medical journalists , and I have been asked repeatedly if I was going to add to the & bquo ; adverse & equo ; ME publicity .
	

    Having heard conflicting views , I am not taking sides .
	

    But I am sure about one thing .
	

    A_little humility in the medical debate would not go amiss .
	

    It might even help deserving patients to be taken seriously .
	

    Before and after ?
	

    new cinema commercial features a teenage sufferer whose life is totally disrupted by ME
