SINGAPORE : Sing Technologies posts steady growth .
	

    Sing Technologies posts steady growth .
	

    Sonali Desai
	

    SINGAPORE 1997-03-31
	

    Diversified conglomerate Singapore Technologies Industrial Corporation ( STIC ) posted a 22 percent increase in 1996 net profit on Monday and said it saw improved earnings in the current financial year .
     Link: [Comments: need s1 to provide referent for STIC throughout the rest of the text (but can only link it to 1 other sentence.]
	

    STIC's net profit rose to Singapore $66.55 million ( US$46.22 million ) for the year ended December 31 , 1996 , slightly above a consensus forecast of S$65.2 million by analysts in the Edinburgh Financial Publications Estimate Directory .
     Link: [Comments: s1 provides a referent for "the group" elsewhere in the text, but again can only link it to 1 other sentence.]
	

    Net profit for the group rose 36.2 percent to S$54.54 million in 1995 .
	

    "_ It_ 's more_or_less in line with expectations , _" said Ng Eng Hou , analyst at Keppel Securities .
	

    He said STIC was likely to post sustainable growth of at_least 20 percent in net profit over the next two years , with its industrial park activities continuing to drive earnings .
	

    Pre-tax profit from STIC's construction and development activities rose to S$45.42 million in 1996 from S$30.04 million the previous year .
	

    STIC president Tay Siew Choon told a news conference the group would increase its investment in heavy infrastructure projects , including bridges , expressways and power plants , with a continued focus on China , India and Indonesia .
	

    He said the group was in the process of conducting a feasibility study for an industrial park in Surabaya , Indonesia , with Indonesia's Dharmala group , but added that it was also examining the prospects for a park in Jakarta .
	

    The group's income from joint ventures fell 6.5 percent to S$8.75 million largely due_to start-up costs for its projects on the Indonesian island of Bintan .
	

    Tay said STIC's leisure resorts on Bintan had only begun operating last year and its industrial park had to realign its focus to attract electronics and engineering companies .
	

    Pre-tax profit from the group's travel and leisure divisions fell to S$2.65 million in 1996 from S$3.89 million the previous year due_to start-up costs and difficult industry conditions , Tay said .
	

    He said the first phase of STIC's resort project on Bintan was likely to start contributing to profits over the next two or three years , eventually helping offset an estimated S$100 million in start-up costs for the second phase .
	

    Income from associates rose 74.5 percent to S$10.84 million , largely due_to contributions from Cathay International Investment , a Bermuda-incorporated company through which STIC operates four bridges and a tunnel in China .
	

    Cathay International Investments is to invest in the operation of four water treatment plants , two expressways and a power generation plant in China this year .
	

    Tay said the group aimed to build its business to ensure sustainable profit growth of 20-25 percent but added that there could be some volatility on an annual basis , depending on whether its projects were in development or start-up phases .
