
Commercial relations between Egypt and China witnessed much development

 



 

 
Egypt-China, Politics, 1/21/2002

  Chinese President Jiang Zemin said he would probe with President 
Mubarak who will start an official visit to Beijing next 
Wednesday, strategic cooperation between the two countries, hot 
international issues such as combating terrorism, the situation 
in the Middle East and in Afghanistan.

  In an interview with AL Ahram newspaper, the Chinese President 
said economic and commercial relations between Egypt and China 
have witnessed a balanced development adding that the volume of 
economic and commercial cooperation expanded to register 900 
million dollars in the year 2000, up with 21 than the preceding 
year.

  He said China is prepared to cooperate with Egypt in the 
technological field at various levels, indicating that there are 
high prospects for cooperation in the fields of scientific 
research, technology, industry and human resources development.

  The Chinese President said the key to solve the issue of the 
Middle East lies in reaching a just settlement for the 
Palestinian cause and return of the land occupied by Israel.

  The Chinese President said his country objects to the Israeli 
policies represented in military attacks, economic siege on 
Palestinians and expansion of the Jewish settlements as well as 
to the acts of violence against innocent civilians.

  He said all parties concerned should work for resuming peace 
negotiations as soon as possible, based on the United Nations 
resolutions on the Middle East issues, the principle of land for 
peace and commitment to agreements and notes of understandings 
which have been reached.

  The Chinese leader said President Mubarak telephoned him after 
last September 11th incidents urging him to do his best for 
saving the peace process between Palestinians and Israel.

  He said his country has repeatedly, through proper diplomatic 
channels, urged the Israeli side to fulfill its pledges and to 
respond favorably to endeavors aimed at reaching a settlement in 
the Middle East through negotiations.

  He indicated that China would continue to play its role in 
supporting the peaceful settlement in the Middle East adding 
that he would discuss with President Bush, who will visit 
Beijing next month, ways of reactivating the peace process 
between Palestinians and Israelis.

  The Chinese President said China fully supports the restoration 
by the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights including 
the right to establish the Palestinian State, adding that China 
recognized Palestinian State when it was declared in 1988.

  The Chinese President said the September 11 incidents have 
shocked the world and imposed many changes, referring to the 
emergence of problems with universal nature such as 
international terrorism, adding that multi-polar system is the 
only guarantee for the establishment of international system.

  The Chinese President said the economic open door policy and 
reform in China has managed to establish a strong economic 
structure and has enhanced Chinese competitiveness.

