    Seeking an ethical watchdog for the genetic scientists By TOM WILKIE
	

    IN A RARE display of consensus last week , industry , consumers _' organisations and the environmental movement called for a national committee to examine the social and ethical implications of biotechnology and genetic engineering of plants and animals , Tom Wilkie writes .
	

    The proposal came at a meeting organised by the National Consumer '_ s Council , a representative body established by statute in 1975 .
	

    Ann Foster , the council '_ s food policy adviser , said : & bquo ; There should be the equivalent of a Warnock Committee to look at aspects of genetic manipulation other than simply matters of safety . & equo ; The Committee of Inquiry into Human Fertilisation and Embryology was set up in July 1982 under the chairmanship of Dame Mary Warnock to investigate in_vitro fertilisation and human genetic research .
	

    Ms Foster put forward the idea of a similar investigation for plant and animal biotechnology because she was troubled by the unnecessary secrecy and seeming insensitivity of government departments to issues other than the narrow technical one of safety .
	

    She stressed that such an investigation would not hinder progress or hold up commerical companies , but would further public acceptance of the technology and so foster developments .
	

    The suggestion was supported both by companies involved in biotechnology and by environmental groups .
 	

    The NCC meeting provided an unprecedented forum for all sides ?
	

    representatives of consumer interests , environmental groups such as the Green Alliance , and commercial firms such as ICI ?
	

    to come together to discuss the implications of the new biotechnology .
	

    They exhibited a surprising degree of consensus and common interest throughout the meeting .
	

    The only persistent jarring note came from civil servants responsible for framing safety regulations and administering the various safety committees .
	

    As_if they were stuck in the 1950s , the civil servants could see no way in which consumer , environmentalist or the broader public interest could be represented .
	

    In stark contrast , industry seems almost eager to put all its cards on the table .
	

    Keith Pike , a manager of ICI Seeds , told the meeting that & bquo ; industry likes to know where it stands .
	

    We are investing millions in these technologies and we want to know what are the rules of the game before we take the risk of bringing a product to the marketplace . & equo ;
	

    Mr Pike welcomed the idea of a general Warnock-style committee on the ethical aspects of the technology .
	

    But he opposed any suggestion that representatives of the environmental movement might sit on the technical committees set up_to decide on the safety of any release of genetically manipulated organisms into the environment .
	

    ICI is in the vanguard of genetic engineering .
	

    Its scientists have snipped through the genes of tomato plants to produce a version that will ripen and develop full flavour without going soft and spoiling in transit between the grower and supermarket shelves .
	

    If its research is successful , it should mean the end of mass-produced tomatoes that are tasteless because they are picked before they are fully ripe to prevent wastage during handling .
     
	

    If the product is approved , genetically engineered tomatoes could be on the supermarket shelves by 1993 .
