
Jordan to sign Kyoto Protocol



 



  AMMAN - Jordan said it will sign the Kyoto Protocol, a UN pact 
on impeding global greenhouse gas emissions, following a recent 
Cabinet decision, according to Faris Juneidi, director general 
of the General Corporation for Environment Protection (GCEP).

  "Soon, the government will delegate Jordan's representative to 
the United Nations, HH Prince Zeid Ben Raad, to sign the 
protocol," Juneidi told The Jordan Times on Tuesday, adding that 
an exact date for signing of the environmental agreement had not 
been set.

  In 1997, at a UN conference in Kyoto, Japan, the Kyoto Protocol 
legally obliged developed countries to reduce the amount of 
greenhouse gas emissions by 8 per cent (below 1990 levels) 
between 2008 and 2012.

  Although developed countries are the world's main source of 
large-scale air pollution, Jordan's decision to sign the 
protocol is aimed at stressing its "commitment towards the 
different international conventions," Juneidi said.

  With the signing of the protocol, he said, GCEP hopes to attract 
more funding to contribute to the international community's 
efforts in reducing greenhouse gases, which trap heat in the 
earth's atmosphere thus causing climate change.

  GCEP, an agency operating under the Ministry of Municipal and 
Rural Affairs and the Environment, is the country's point of 
reference for environmental pacts.

  On Monday, the 15 European Union member states agreed to be 
formally bound to the Kyoto accord, and complete the 
ratification by June 1 this year.

  In March 2001, the US administration opposed the protocol by 
saying that it contravenes US economic interests, a decision 
slammed by European Union countries at the time. Instead the US 
government produced its own alternative climate change strategy 
aimed at encouraging industries to trim their emissions.

  Other developed countries like Canada have shown reluctance 
towards signing the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would cut the 
national GDP by up to 2.5 per cent in 2010 and cause economic 
damage worth 30 billion Canadian dollars ($19 billion).

