	
[Computer selected and disseminated without FBIS editorial intervention] 
	
	
 Taipei, Jan. 23 (CNA) -- Republic of China President Chen Shui-bian expressed the hope Wednesday that the United States will help Taiwan's bid for observer status in the World Health Organization (WHO), following its assistance to Taiwan's World Trade Organization (WTO) membership bid. 
	
	
 Chen made the remarks while meeting visiting U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Market Access and Compliance William H. Lash, III at the Presidential Office Wednesday. Lash arrived in Taipei Tuesday for a four-day visit. 
	
	
 Chen also expressed hope that the United States will negotiate with Taiwan to sign a free trade zone agreement between the two countries so as to help Taiwan's internalization and to give it more international responsibility. 
	
	
 He also expressed gratitude and admiration to the United States for its firm support for Taiwan, especially in maintaining the security of the Taiwan Strait and peace in the Asia-Pacific region. 
	
	
 He pointed out that U.S. President George Bush's decision to sell arms to Taiwan last April was made to avoid an imbalance of cross-strait military force by 2005 on the one hand and to further safeguard Taiwan's democratic achievements on the other. 
	
	
 Touching on Taiwan's WTO entry, Chen said Taiwan could not have smoothly entered the WTO if the United States government and Congress did not render their firm support to Taiwan's bid for membership. 
	
	
 Taiwan's WTO access has given Taiwan a window to the world, a window to the century and a window of opportunity, he went on, adding that it will allow Taiwan to upgrade its competitiveness and help U.S.-Taiwan trade relations. 
	
	
 Lash in return congratulated Chen on Taiwan's WTO entry and said that his visit shows that the United States attaches great importance to U.S.-Taiwan trade relations. 
	
	
 Taiwan's WTO entry is not a conclusion of its goal but the beginning of its chance to play an important role in the world, Lash said, adding that the United States will continue to help Taiwan realize all its WTO expectations. 
	
	
 He congratulated Chen on the ruling Democratic Progressive Party becoming the biggest political party in the Legislative Yuan with last December's legislative election. 
	
	
 Lash also expressed gratitude to Chen for the assistance rendered by Taiwan to the United States in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States and for its participation in the post-war reconstruction of Afghanistan.	


