USA : Great Western says Ahmanson consents short .
	

    Great Western says Ahmanson consents short .
	

    CHATSWORTH , Calif. 1997-03-31
	

    Great Western Financial Corp said Monday hostile suitor H.F. Ahmanson and Co's effort to solicit shareholder consents to start negotiations has fallen "_ far short _" of a majority of the outstanding shares .
	

    Earlier Monday , Ahmanson said more than 80 percent of "_ voted _" Great Western shares supported its proposals .
     Link: [Comments: the "but" of s2, as well as its reference to "the Ahmanson statement" means that s1 has to be included.]
	

    But the Ahmanson statement did not say what percentage of the outstanding shares were received .
	

    Great Western has agreed to be acquired by Seattle-based Washington Mutual Inc and has rejected Ahmanson's initial offer and a subsequent revision that increased the amount of stock that would be offered to Great Western shareholders .
     Link: [Comments: the offer mentiooned in s1 provides the referent for the proposal in s2.]
	

    The Ahmanson proposals are designed to pressure the Great Western board to run an open auction process .
	

    One proposal is for adoption of a non-binding resolution urging the Great Western board to provide non-public information to Ahmanson and to enter into negotiations .
	

    In a press release , Great Western said "_ it is an indisputable fact that an overwhelming majority of Great Western stockholders have not consented to Ahmanson's proposed resolutions and amendments to Great Western's By-laws . _"
	

    The release continued , "_ what Ahmanson has carefully avoided acknowledging is that it has fallen far short_of obtaining the necessary consents from a majority of Great Western shares by its artificial March 27 deadline . _"
	

    Peter Gleason , an analyst with Institutional Shareholder Services ( ISS ) said that , under Delaware law , Ahmanson can continue soliciting consents until approximately May 12 .
	

    He said that , although Ahmanson had tried to garner a majority of consents by March 27 , that was "_ not a real date . _"
	

    ISS is a consulting firm that advises large institutional investors on how to vote their shares on issues of corporate governance .
	

    Gleason said ISS's views on whether_or_not to back the Ahmanson consent solicitation will be distributed to clients late on Wednesday after an analysis is completed .
	

    A spokesman for Ahmanson , reading a prepared statement , characterized Great Western's announcement as "_ more obfuscation . _"
     Comments: this provides the referent for "the spokesman" in another sentence, but is not itself relevent.
	

    The spokesman said Ahmanson stands behind its numbers that more than 80 percent of voted shares back its solicitation and that 19 of Great Western's 20 largest shareholders have voted for or indicated a vote for Ahmanson's proposals .
	

    The spokesman declined to specify how many consents Ahmanson has actually received .
	

    Asked if Ahmanson would continue to solicit consents , he responded , "_ that_ 's correct . _"
	

    The Ahmanson spokesman continued : "_ Despite Great Western's rhetoric it has been clear from the outset that this consent solicitation is about creating a level playing field for all bidders , good corporate governance and maximizing stockholder value . _"
	

    Great Western , in its press release , said Ahmamnson was trying to divert attention from an "_ inferior merger proposdal . _"
	

    A Wall Street arbitrager , who requested anonymity , said that , without knowing how many shares have been voted , the Ahmanson figures were like an "_ exit poll . _"
	

    "_ It_ 's impressive they_ 're getting this percentage of consents without a doubt , but I_ 'm still not sure where it leaves you , _" the arbitrager said .
	

    Based on stock prices late Monday , the Ahmanson proposal was worth $43.65 per Great Western share and the Washington Mutual proposal was worth $43.48 .
	

    Great Western shares were trading at $40.375 per share , down $2.25 .
	

    Ahmanson was off $1.00 to $36.375 and Washington Mutual was off $1.25 to $48.31 .
	

    All three stocks have dropped sharply in the last several weeks amid pressure on most financial stocks as U.S. interest rates have moved higher .
