    Rapidly growing environmental fears have made climate research more important then ever ?
	

    and Europe is forging ahead in the field with the planned launch of the ERS-1 .
	

    As Nicholas Booth reports , Britain is playing a prominent role in a complex satellite which could unveil the mysteries of the Earth '_ s resources The Euro-eyes of the world .
	

    IN THE YEAR that saw mankind '_ s first wave of planetary exploration reach a glorious climax with Voyager 2's passage of Neptune , it is clear that new space efforts will concentrate on the third planet from the Sun .
	

    Already trumpeted as & bquo ; A Mission To Earth & equo ; by Nasa , climate research has gained new prominence , chiming with the rise in environmental concerns the world over .
	

    It '_ s an area in which Europe has forged ahead and which , against all the odds , is actively supported by our very own government .
	

    For_once , the UK is in the good books of the European Space Agency ( ESA ) for our support of the European Remote Sensing ( ERS ) programme , which will use the most complex satellites it has ever attempted to build . & bquo ; It '_ s one of the most important projects we have for the 1990s , & equo ; says Philip Goldsmith , head of Earth observation at the European Space Agency .
	

    ERS-1 is currently under test in Toulouse , scheduled for launch next October , at_least two years before any other satellites as part of an international monitoring programme for the 1990s .
	

    Whilst other space agencies have equally ambitious plans , they remain as blueprints , or , as one European scientist puts it , & bquo ; pie-in-the-sky-eyes-in-the-sky . & equo ;
	

    ERS-1 has five instruments which will scan the Earth at microwave wavelengths to monitor ocean , ice and land resources .
	

    Microwave techniques will enable ERS-1 to return data continuously : they can & bquo ; see & equo ; through cloud and operate at night .
	

    Orbiting the Earth at 780 kilometres altitude , ERS-1 will fly over the poles on each orbit and its instruments will cover the whole of the globe during three days .
	

    So for oceanographers , used to data returned from ships in commercial shipping lanes , ERS-1 will give a totally global picture of the seas .
	

    Two of the ERS instruments have been provided by the UK .
	

    The Active Microwave Instrument radar system , built by Marconi Space Systems , is significant because it can be used over land or ocean : it will return vital information about how the wind interacts with waves .
	

    How the wind affects the ocean and modifies the heat exchanged with the atmosphere is not well understood , but is of paramount importance to weather forecasters who can not wait for ERS-1 to begin operations .
	

    Though ESA admits there have been electronic problems with one of the system '_ s processors , it '_ s hardly surprising . & bquo ; It '_ s the most complex instrument we '_ ve ever built , & equo ; says Joe McCaughey , Marconi '_ s project manager . & bquo ; ERS as a whole is a quantum leap for Europe . & equo ;
	

    The Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in Oxfordshire has provided the Along-Track Scanning Radiometer , an infrared instrument which will measure sea surface temperatures down to 0.3C . & bquo ; There are Americans who '_ d give their eye teeth for this sort of data , & equo ; says one ERS project scientist at the laboratory .
	

    This greater accuracy will allow the heat transfer between the oceans and the atmosphere to be better computed .
	

    Commercially , the ATSR data will allow fishing vessels to & bquo ; home in & equo ; on the edges of sea currents where fish congregate to feed on nutrients brought up from the ocean floor .
	

    But the emphasis for ERS-1 is science , as the ERS programme is ESA '_ s contribution to Woce , the World Ocean Circulation Experiment , an important part of global climate research in the 1990s .
	

    The way in which the atmosphere interacts with the oceans remains a last great unknown in Earth science .
	

    Similarly , the mechanisms for heat transport in ocean currents is also mysterious , as the amounts of both heat and water within them is not well defined .
	

    Nearly 10 per_cent of the Earth '_ s surface is covered by ice , which remains as terra incognita to climatologists as it was to 17th-century explorers .
	

    Ice coverage limits the exchange of heat between the atmosphere and ocean , effectively & bquo ; insulating & equo ; polar regions from sunlight during summertime . & bquo ; You '_ d be amazed how little we know about the polar regions , & equo ; says Dr Preben Goodmandsen of the Technical University of Denmark . & bquo ; During the wintertime , there '_ s no sunlight .
	

    ERS , with its microwave sensors , will give us the best view we '_ ve ever had . & equo ; There are no exact figures for the rates at which ice melts and refreezes , mechanisms which have affected sea level changes .
	

    ERS-1 is expected to return the first quantitive data on these processes at the poles .
	

    & bquo ; The key to the ERS programme is continuity , & equo ; says Guy Duchossois of ESA headquarters .
	

    The agency has plans to launch a second craft in April 1994 , at about the time that the first satellite reaches the end of its operational life .
	

    Climate modelling and assessing environmental change will need more than three years _' data if it is to be enhanced .
	

    After refusing to sanction the project , the UK is now providing funding .
	

    Perhaps more importantly , governmental space sources relate that Margaret Thatcher is behind ERS-2 . & bquo ; She knows about ERS-2 and is enthusiastic about it , & equo ; says one .
	

    At present , only France has not given its go-ahead for ERS-2 funding .
	

    Dr Issac Revah , of the French space agency CNES , says : & bquo ; We too are behind the project .
	

    It '_ s just a matter of finding the money . & equo ; Next week , in Paris , ESA '_ s governing body of national representatives meets to discuss ERS-2 amongst other future plans .
	

    While France prevaricates , other nations are expressing interest in the ERS programme .
     Link: [Comments: ]
	

    India , Pakistan , Indonesia , Brazil and Kenya have asked to receive data from ERS-1 , which will be made available to them within three hours of it being transmitted from the satellite .
