
Argentine Leader Quits as Economy Begins a Free Fall

 





  BUENOS AIRES, Dec. 20 - President Fernando de la R?signed 
today, halfway through his four-year term, swamped by violent 
protests and looting that erupted when his government failed to 
reverse a deepening economic crisis.

  The resignation letter, which was delivered to Congress late in 
the day, followed violent food riots and protests here and in 
several cities. At least five demonstrators were killed today, 
bringing the death toll to 21 since the protests began early 
Wednesday.

  The president had made a last- ditch effort to form a unity 
government today with the leading opposition party, but when 
that was rejected, he announced he would leave.

  Argentina, with widening budget deficits, is heavily indebted to 
foreign lenders and is battling to prevent more defaults. After 
a series of budget cuts and a patchwork of economic programs, 
the country lacks a coherent economic and monetary strategy, and 
has no consensus as to what should be done.

  Mr. de la R?resignation will put the country's immediate 
future in the hands of the moderate opposition party that 
controls Congress and had recently begun blocking many of the 
former president's policies.

  Ram?uerta, the president of the Senate, is to become 
Argentina's provisional president for at least 48 hours while 
the Congress decides how to prepare for new elections, which are 
likely sometime next year. Under the law, a new president should 
be installed within three months.

  But Congress can change that, and how it will play its hand will 
be largely left to opposition leaders, including a former 
president, Carlos Sa?nem, and Senator Eduardo Duhalde, who 
lost to Mr. de la R? the 1999 elections.

  Whoever takes power is expected to face the same tough choices 
that defeated the indecisive Mr. de la R?aced with recession 
and declining exports, some Wall Street analysts have predicted 
that Argentina will devalue its currency by unhinging the peso 
from its unusual one-for- one link to the dollar.

  While such a move would lower prices and spur growth by making 
the country's goods more attractive, it could also prove ruinous 
to millions of borrowers and to the nation's banking system 
because most loans in the country are repayable in dollars, not 
pesos.

  Mr. de la R?government collapsed with surprising rapidity, 
as the police fired shotguns at demonstrators in front of his 
palace, tear gas seeped into presidential offices and fires 
filled the grand boulevards and avenues of Buenos Aires with 
towers of black smoke.

  Thousands of demonstrators massed and set bonfires in front of 
the Congress and presidential palace throughout the day, until 
riot police, including some on horseback, stormed through the 
crowds this afternoon clubbing people while reinforcements fired 
water cannon and rubber bullets.

  Defiant crowds chanted "assassins, assassins, assassins," making 
the scenes of anarchy reminiscent of the turbulent days of 
military rule from 1976 to 1983. With the 5 deaths today, more 
than 1,000 demonstrators and looters were arrested. More than 50 
police officers were reported hurt in the disturbances in the 
capital alone.

  The violence today followed looting and rioting in 11 of 
Argentina's 24 provinces on Wednesday, and much damage to 
private businesses, especially food stores. Mr. de la R?eclared a state of siege for 30 days on Wednesday, giving him 
the right to suspend such Constitutional rights as freedom of 
assembly and speech, and giving him free rein to arrest at will.

  But his assumption of emergency powers appeared only to incite 
greater protests, beginning with an outpouring of thousands of 
people Wednesday night onto the streets of Buenos Aires, banging 
pots and pans and demanding Mr. de la R?resignation.

  In an attempt to save his government, Mr. de la R?4, went on 
national television on Wednesday night and apologized to the 
people for their disappointment in his administration's 
performance. He called on the opposition party, known as the 
Justicialist party, "to participate in a national unity 
government in which they can bring in their ideas and programs."

  When that call was rebuffed, Mr. de la R?ld his closest 
aides that he had no choice but to tape a televised resignation 
address.

  As soon as Nicolas Gallo, a senior personal aide to Mr. de la 
R?old reporters late this afternoon that the president had 
decided to resign, the streets began to calm. The text of the 
speech said the resignation was to "assure the peace."

  Mr. Gallo told reporters, "the president wanted to avoid more 
suffering." He said "history will judge" how Mr. de la R?
administration would be seen. "It's been a very sad day," he 
added.

  Most opposition party leaders have called for the devaluation of 
the peso and suspension of payment on the country's debts.

  They are also suggesting that business and consumer loans that 
are now valued in dollars be revalued into new peso amounts that 
would reduce the overall debt. The lower loan amounts would 
benefit individuals whose income is expected to decline by 30 
percent to 50 percent in a peso devaluation.

  This scheme is designed to help middle-class people with home 
mortgages and car loans that are currently valued in dollars.

  The losers would be bank lenders because the loans would not be 
fully repaid. Other losers could well be Argentine businesses 
that owe dollar debts abroad but collect revenue in pesos at 
home. It would take a greater number of devalued pesos to repay 
their dollar loans.

  "I believe the economy can be stabilized and grow during a 
transition government," said Governor Adolfo Rodr?ez Saa of 
San Luis Province, an influential member of the opposition.

  Mr. de la R?decline began in October 2000 with the 
resignation of his vice president, Carlos Alvarez, over the 
government's handling of charges that bribes were paid to 
opposition senators to pass a new labor law.

  Mr. de la R?ruling Alianza coalition of centrists and Social 
Democrats fractured, and his cabinet became a revolving door of 
officials and constantly changing economic policies.

  Then, in October, his coalition suffered a devastating defeat in 
legislative elections that gave the opposition control of both 
houses of Congress.

  Cabinet officials on Wednesday publicly accused the Buenos Aires 
governor, Carlos Ruckauf, a former vice president and one of the 
most powerful leaders of the opposition, of instigating the 
looting to overthrow the government.

  During an emergency meeting of the cabinet on Wednesday, 
ministers debated whether to openly confront Governor Ruckauf 
with charges of treason. Some aides to Mr. de la R?gued that 
the federal government should seize Governor Ruckauf's Buenos 
Aires provincial police force in order to control the rioting 
that surged in the working-class neighborhoods that surround the 
capital city.

  But Mr. de la R?sitated, and instead declared a state of 
siege, which failed to bring peace. Now Mr. Ruckauf is 
considered a major presidential contender.



Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company

