    SOUTH KOREA : S.Korea moves to lure foreign funds to boost won .
	

    S.Korea moves to lure foreign funds to boost won .
	

    Yeom Yoon-jeong
	

    SEOUL 1997-03-31
	

    South Korea's ailing won shot up 2.25 percent against the dollar on Monday after the government announced steps to open stock and bond markets wider to foreigners .
	

    Stocks rallied in anticipation of the announcement and the key three-year bond yield edged lower .
	

    After the stock market closed , the government announced it would raise the foreign stock holding ceiling to 23 percent of a listed firm from the current 20 percent , effective from May 1 .
	

    The finance ministry earlier said foreign investors would have access to non-guaranteed bonds issued by large companies for the first time .
	

    The government would also allow domestic financial institutions to raise funds in Asia and Europe for investment in the local bond market this year .
	

    In a further move to bring in more overseas capital and shore up the won , the ministry said it would expand overseas borrowings by state banks .
	

    President Kim Young-sam , adding his weight to the liberalisation announcements , ordered his economic ministers to hasten access for foreign investors to the domestic capital market .
	

    "_ The government should actively pursue measures to stabilise the foreign exchange market which faces difficulties due_to the expansion of a current account deficit , _" Kim told economic ministers .
	

    The won has fallen about 13 percent against the dollar since the beginning of last year , pushed lower by a ballooning current account deficit .
	

    In the past few weeks , speculators have been betting against the won , calculating the central bank is losing its ability to defend the currency due_to dwindling foreign exchange reserves .
	

    A falling won has not helped exports as expected because the yen has dropped even more steeply against the dollar .
	

    A weakening won is putting pressure on inflation .
	

    And there is also alarm that the overall weak economy is boosting the jobless rate , which now stands at 3.5 percent , its highest level in almost three years .
	

    The government estimated the measures would attract an additional $8 billion this year , bringing foreign capital infow to $28 billion , instead_of an earlier estimated $20 billion .
	

    But economists warned the government was too optimistic .
	

    "_ I doubt if foreign funds will really flow in as much as the government estimates , _" said an economist at the Korea Institute of Finance , who declined to be identified .
	

    The composite index gained 10.15 points , or 1.52 percent , to close at 677.34 .
	

    Analysts welcomed the measures , but said immediate beneficiaries would be only a handful of blue chips as many foreigners were still concerned about the poor economic fundamentals .
	

    The news also immediately chilled dollar buying sentiment and contributed to the local currency rebounding .
	

    The won closed at 895.00 after opening at 898.90 .
	

    It touched a daily upper limit of 877.00 .
	

    "_ It_ 's important to confirm the government's firm intention not to stand idly by the won's sharp depreciation , _" said Lee Chang-seon , economist at LG Economic Research Institute .
	

    But economists and dealers said they did not believe Monday's announcements would have a fundamental impact on the won .
	

    "_ The moves will not reverse the dollar's bullishness , _" said a Hana Bank dealer . "_ Why should the won strengthen , when the dollar continues to rise in world markets ? _"
	

    The yield on three-year benchmark corporate bonds closed at 12.50 percent , down from 12.66 percent on Saturday .
