
Chinese space exploration: When will a Chinese cosmonaut fly into space?

 





  Shenzhou-3 orbited the Earth 108 times, and successfully landed 
on the targeted site in inner Mongolia: the Chinese space 
program is developing.

  The 47th congress of the International Federation of 
Astronautics that took place six years ago in Beijing was 
remarkable for the large number of cosmonauts who participated. 
There was even an Austrian there, but the country who organized 
the forum, the third country on the rating of space explorers, 
was not represented. This can partially be explained with the 
third position on the rating.

  A Czech, Austrian, Bulgarian, or a Dutch citizen is not entitled 
to give the command "Go!" like Yury Gagarin did if they are only 
guests on the Russian Soyuz station or American Shuttle. China 
will not agree to put its citizens on a foreign spaceship, as it 
must launch its own space vehicle from its own cosmodrome. Mao 
Tse-tung was passionate about this idea. Here is an interesting 
detail from his unpublished "Moscow speech" that was delivered 
to Chinese students studying in Russia. Mao Tse-tung mentioned 
the fact of the recent Soviet launch of the first ever 
satellite, weighing 70 kilos; then he turned to the Chinese 
ambassador and asked him: "Do you weigh 70 kilos, ambassador Liu 
Xiao? "A bit less than that,"   was the answer. "There you see! 
The Soviet Union can launch ambassador Liu Xiao into space! 
America cannot do it so far." 
  Was it only the wish of socialist propaganda in those words? 
That speech was delivered on November 15, 1957, and the Central 
Committee of the Communist Party of China authorized its rocket 
production program a year before that, in October of 1956 (on 
Mao Tse-tung's initiative). The specialized Fifth Institute of 
the Defense Ministry was established for that purpose. Two years 
ago, in October of 1955, Beijing received a person with the 
reputation of the "Chinese Korolev"   Qian Xuesen, who came to 
China from the USA, where he had settled after graduating from 
Shanghai university, so it would be better to call him "Chinese 
von Broun." Xuesen continued his studies at California Technical 
University, having obtained a Doctor of Astronautics degree, 
and, as the say, the title of US Air Force colonel. He then was 
employed at a US Air Force rocket engine lab and succeeded 
there. In the summer of 1950, he made an attempt to move to 
Beijing. FBI agents caught him and his wife at the airport of 
Los Angeles, as well as luggage that contained 896 pounds of 
books and records. Xuesen was released only after five years 
only, after the "quarantine" during which he was not allowed 
access to the secret information. Xuesen became the supervisor 
of the research works in the field, but the Chinese spaceships 
of the Shenzhou type looked like the Russian Soyuz, specialists 
say.

  At the same time, when the Chinese von Broun managed to reach 
China, there were other bearers of fresher secrets there   from 
the country, which could "launch ambassador Liu Xiao into 
space." The Chinese students who graduated from Russian 
universities and Soviet experts of nuclear and missile 
technologies. The "elder brother" (the Chinese people used to 
call the Soviet Union this) was not against helping the "younger 
brother" in the field of modernization.

  By the time of Mao Tse-tung's "Moscow speech," the Chinese were 
actively searching for a site for their rocket range. The 
committee of the competent departments prepared seven variants 
with the help of Soviet experts. The choice was made for a site 
in the Gobi Desert. The construction of the Jiuquan cosmodrome 
was started there; it was put into operation at the end of 1958. 
China's three (unmanned) spaceships were launched into space 
from there:

  Shenzhou-1 was launched on November 20, 1999; it stayed in the 
orbit for about 24 hours, having orbited the Earth 14 times.

  Shenzhou-2 blasted off on January 10, 2001, staying about a week 
in the orbit, having flown 108 times around the planet.

  Shenzhou-3 (blasted off on March 25) stayed in space for the 
same period of time, with the same number of circuits around the 
Earth.

  The current goal is to examine the module and its contents (like 
in the first two cases). However, it is evident now that China 
has reliable rocket systems; it has mastered the art of space 
navigation and soft landing of a spaceship. China knows how to 
build its own spaceships, and there are people who can become 
cosmonauts. Their training is in full swing (Russia is 
reportedly participating). As China's experts believe, there 
should be at least four test unmanned flights performed before 
they can launch a man into space.

  Therefore, the "Chinese Gagarin" will probably say "Go!" no 
later than 2005. China is also working on programs for Chinese 
cosmonauts to fly to the Moon, as well as a space station.

  
Andrey Krushinsky


Copyright @1999 by " Pravda.RU ". When reproducing our materials 
in whole or in part, reference to Pravda.RU should be made. The 
opinions and views of the authors do not always coinside with 
the point of view of PRAVDA.Ru's editors.

