
Angry at Vote, Commonwealth Bars Zimbabwe



 



  LONDON, March 19 - Flanked by the presidents of South Africa and 
Nigeria, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia today announced 
a yearlong suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth, a group 
of 54 nations, mostly former British colonies. The unusual step 
was meant to punish President Robert Mugabe for his stewardship 
of elections this month that were widely criticized outside 
Africa as rigged.

  The two African leaders, Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and 
Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, maintained a cryptic silence while 
Mr. Howard spoke, endorsing the decision by their presence at a 
news conference but avoiding embroilment in a debate over 
whether they now view Mr. Mugabe's presidency as illegitimate.

  While less than an expulsion, the move still deepened the 
diplomatic isolation of Zimbabwe, which has already been 
battered by political violence, hunger, economic decline and the 
threat of labor unrest. It means Zimbabwean officials will be 
barred from meetings held by the Commonwealth, an organization 
that carries some cachet as an important club bridging the 
north-south divide.

  The suspension was decided by the three men, who met as a 
committee charged with deciding the Commomwealth's response. The 
decision, made at the headquarters in Marlborough House, has 
left two of the men facing an acute dilemma.

  Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Obasanjo - both of whose countries have under 
past undemocratic regimes been excluded from the Commonwealth - 
are torn between solidarity with a fellow African leader who was 
a crusader against colonialism, and their commitment to 
democratic standards as part of African economic regeneration. 
Mr. Howard was chairman of the three-nation committee.

  The move avoids an open rift between its majority members in 
Africa and Asia, some of which have tended to side with Mr. 
Mugabe, and rich, white-ruled countries like Britain, Canada and 
Australia, which have criticized him. Yet it adds one more voice 
to those labeling Mr. Mugabe a pariah and increasing pressure on 
him to seek reconciliation, possibly through new elections.

  The opprobrium spread further today when Switzerland became the 
latest country to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe, "in view of the 
manipulation of the presidential elections and ongoing human 
rights violations," the Swiss government said.

  Under other restrictions, Mr. Mugabe and Zimbabwe's most senior 
leaders are already barred from travel to the United States and 
the European Union.

  "The committee has decided to suspend Zimbabwe from the councils 
of the Commonwealth for a period of one year with immediate 
effect," Mr. Howard said, reading the statement alone, 
apparently as a face-saving gesture to Mr. Mbeki, whose own 
election observers in Zimbabwe found the vote "legitimate."

  The response to Mr. Mugabe's behavior was seen by many outsiders 
as a token of South Africa's and Nigeria's own commitment to 
democracy as a way of fostering economic renewal. At a meeting 
in Monterrey, Mexico, for instance, the financier George Soros 
said today that the Zimbabwe elections "have cast doubt on the 
ability of the African states to create suitable conditions for 
private investment."

  If the Commonwealth had not suspended Zimbabwe - an act Mr. 
Howard saw as "at the severe end" of available punishments - 
such criticism would only have sharpened. Yet many African 
politicians, including Morgan Tsvangirai, the Zimbabwe 
opposition leader defeated in the election, had expressed doubt 
that the Commonwealth would take any action at all.

  The suspension was accompanied by suggestions for easing 
Zimbabwe's drastic food shortages and economic decline. The 
Commonwealth also supported moves to resolve the country's 
violent crisis over the seizure of white farmers' land, backing 
Mr. Mugabe in his commitment to redistribute territory among 
landless black Zimbabweans. This was apparently intended to keep 
the door open to dialogue.

  "Land is at the core of the crisis in Zimbabwe," Mr. Howard said 
in his statement.

  According to the statement, the leaders of South Africa and 
Nigeria will continue to talk to Mr. Mugabe about ways to lift 
the suspension.

  For all its critics say it is ineffective, the Commonwealth has 
nonetheless sought to project itself as an arbiter of democratic 
legitimacy among often delinquent members.

  In the 60's, white-ruled South Africa quit the Commonwealth 
rather than be suspended over apartheid; Nigeria was suspended 
in the 1990's during military rule because of the execution of 
the human rights activist Ken Saro Wiwa. Fiji has been suspended 
twice, once for 10 years. Pakistan has been suspended since the 
military coup two years ago that brought Gen. Pervez Musharraf 
to power.



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

