	
Italian returns from Russian space mission 
	
	
 Text of report in English by Italian news agency ANSA web site 
	
	
 Moscow, 5 May: Italian astronaut Roberto Vittori, a Russian cosmonaut and a paying space tourist, returned to earth today from their ten-day mission, including eight days aboard the International Space Station (ISS). "It was a tough but gratifying experience. I'm ready to go back," Vittori told Italian general Mario Arpino during a telephone call shortly after the Russian Soyuz space capsule made its touch-down in Kazakhstan. Russian officials said the three men, including the world's second space tourist South African millionaire Mark Shuttleworth, were in fine condition. Shuttleworth, 28, who paid the Russians 20m dollars for his jaunt in space, termed the experience "extraordinary." He became the world's second space tourist, after US businessman Denis Tito made a similar voyage a year ago. Vittori, 37, spent eight months at Russia's "Star City" in preparation for his 10-day mission, dubbed Marco Polo by the Italian Space Agency. During his 8 days aboard the ISS he carried out a series of experiments for ISA [as received] and the European Space Agency on health in space Vittori, a colonel and test-pilot with a wife and two small boys, already has three years training at NASA centres in Houston. His training in Russia combined with his knowledge of American techniques will put him at an advantage if the role of station commander should open up in the future, he said before his training started. The role is currently reserved for Americans and Russians. Italy's Umberto Guidoni was the first European to set foot on board the ISS in April 2000, while a third Italian astronaut, Paolo Nespoli, is scheduled to make his trip in 2003-2004. The estimated cost of Vittori's flight with the Russians was around 12.5m dollars. This covered his training, that of a Belgian substitute and the cost of carrying two scientific experiments on board the Russian Soyuz rocket. 
	
	
	


