	
At a Japan-US summit meeting on 18 February, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi expressed some understanding of US President George W. Bush's remarks that Iran, Iraq, and the DPRK (North Korea) are an "axis of evil." This left the impression that Japan stands alone on this issue because European countries have been cool to Bush's "axis of evil" rhetoric. However, it will be difficult for Japan to provide support to the US, as it did when the US attacked Afghanistan, if US forces launch military action against Iraq. It can be said that the Japanese Government has put itself in a difficult position. 
	
	
 At a meeting of several officials held at the outset of the summit, the President first took up economic issues and then referred to his "axis of evil" remark. He urged Japan to follow the US by saying: "The international community needs to cooperate to change Iran, Iraq, and North Korea's action pattern (of spreading weapons of mass destruction). All options (including military action) are on the table." 
	
	
 European countries are critical of Bush's "axis of evil" remark. French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine criticized the remark as "simplistic interpretation of the world." However, Koizumi said, "I take the remark as the indication of the President's strong resolve to fight terrorism." 
	
	
 The US has repeatedly suggested the possibility of its taking military action against the government of Iraqi President Saddam Husayn. It is possible that if the US military attack Iraq, Japan, which has shown understanding of the axis of evil remark, will be asked to provide active support to the US as it did during US attacks on Afghanistan. 
	
	
 However, it will be difficult for the Self-Defense Forces to provide logistic support to US forces attacking Iraq under a special antiterrorism law aimed at eradicating terrorism, which was enacted after terrorist attacks in the US on 11 September. "It is also politically very difficult" to enact a new law considering the declining support for the Koizumi Cabinet, said a source within the Prime Minister's Official Residence. 
	
	
 If Japan does not give any support to possible US attacks on Iraq despite its understanding of the axis of evil rhetoric, Bush's expectations on the Koizumi administration will certainly change to disappointment. Although the Japanese Government has expressed understanding of Bush's axis of evil remark, it does not hope to see the US taking military action. 
	
	
 Because of this, Koizumi noted the need for the international community to cooperate in tackling Iraqi issues and enthusiastically asked Bush to not take the bold course of launching military action. 
	
	
 In reply, the President said, "We want to resolve all issues peacefully, and we intend to continue diplomatic efforts." However, it is unclear whether Japan can actually prevent the US from taking military action.	


