
U.S. Begins First Airlift of Prisoners

 



  

WASHINGTON, Jan. 10 - A C-17 Globemaster cargo plane carrying 20 
heavily guarded Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners left a Marine 
Corps base in southern Afghanistan today on its way to the 
United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the first wave 
of hundreds of detainees who will be held there.

  The Pentagon provided few details about the flight, but senior 
military officials said more than 40 specially trained military 
police officers guarded the prisoners on the flight, which was 
expected to make one stop before reaching Cuba, possibly as 
early as Friday morning.

  The prisoners, their hands and feet shackled and their heads 
covered by hoods, were loaded single file onto the plane at 
Kandahar Airport. Pentagon officials said some prisoners might 
also be sedated during the more-than-20-hour flight, but it was 
not clear whether that had happened.

  A Pentagon official said earlier this week that the United 
States did not consider the detainees prisoners of war, but that 
they were still being afforded the protections under the Geneva 
Convention guidelines.

  At Guantanamo Bay, the prisoners will be taken to a makeshift 
detention center known as Camp X- Ray, where they will be locked 
in 6- by-8-foot cages made of concrete and chain-link fence to 
await intensive interrogation and, possibly, trial before 
military tribunals.

  As workers prepared the camp in Cuba for as many as 2,000 
prisoners, search crews in Pakistan continued to comb the 
wreckage of a Marine Corps tanker plane that crashed on 
Wednesday in southwestern Pakistan. Seven marines died in the 
fiery accident.

  Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that there 
was no evidence that the crash had been caused by hostile fire.

  Pentagon officials also said today that the United States was 
preparing to send a force of more than 100 soldiers, many of 
them Special Operations forces, to the Philippines to help train 
Filipino troops to fight Muslim militants from the Abu Sayyaf 
group.

  Though the American forces are expected to be involved initially 
in advising and training Filipino counterterrorist units, senior 
American military officials have said they could become involved 
in direct military action if the Philippine government requested 
it.

  Amnesty International issued a statement today saying that 
sedating prisoners or shackling them for an entire flight would 
violate international standards prohibiting "cruel, inhuman or 
degrading" treatment.

  Mr. Rumsfeld said today that he did not know how the prisoners 
would be restrained during the flight. But he defended the use 
of strong measures, saying the Pentagon had closely studied 
violent uprisings by Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners held in the 
northern Afghan city of Mazar- i-Sharif and in Pakistan.

  About 20 minutes after the C-17 lifted off from the base at 
Kandahar Airport, marines came under small- arms fire near one 
of the runways. No one was injured and the identify of the 
snipers remained unknown tonight, military officials said.

  Military officials also said John Walker Lindh, the American who 
was captured with Taliban forces near Mazar-i-Sharif, was not 
among the prisoners transferred today. Mr. Walker is still being 
held aboard the assault ship Bataan in the Arabian Sea, the 
officials said.

  American forces in Afghanistan were holding a total of 371 
prisoners today, including 351 at Kandahar and 19 at Bagram air 
base north of Kabul. But the number keeps rising as American 
military and intelligence officials continue interviewing 
thousands of prisoners held by anti-Taliban militias.

  Camp X-Ray has cells for about 100 detainees, and will soon be 
expanded to hold 220. During the next few months, military work 
crews will build permanent facilities for as many as 2,000 
prisoners.

  Mr. Rumsfeld declined to discuss details about the growing 
American involvement in the Philippines, where Abu Sayyaf 
guerrillas have been battling government troops in the southern 
island of Basilan. The rebels, who have been linked to Al Qaeda 
in the past, are holding two American hostages for ransom.

  But earlier this week, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. 
Wolfowitz said that American Special Operations forces might 
become involved in "direct support of Philippine military 
operations," though he added that the government seemed 
"anxious" to do the job itself.

  "There's no question that we believe that if they could clear 
the Abu Sayyaf group out of Basilan Island, that would be a 
small blow against the extended Al Qaeda network," Mr. Wolfowitz 
said.

  In November, President Bush promised to give the Philippines a 
$100 million antiterrorism aid package that would include 
weapons, training and shared intelligence. Since then, the 
United States has sent an array of equipment to the Philippine 
military, including a C-130 cargo plane, 30,000 M-16 rifles and 
8 UH- 1 Huey helicopters.

  In eastern Afghanistan, American B-1 and B-52 bombers dropped 
precision-guided weapons on the sprawling Al Qaeda training camp 
at Zhawar Kili near the Pakistan border today for the sixth time 
in just over a week.

  Senior military officials have said they are increasingly 
concerned that there are other equally sophisticated and 
well-fortified underground complexes elsewhere in Afghanistan 
that could become guerrilla bases for remnants of the Taliban 
and Al Qaeda forces.

  At the Pentagon, Mr. Bush signed a $318 billion military 
spending bill today for the 2002 fiscal year. "Today more than 
ever we also owe those in uniform the resources they need to 
maintain a very high state of readiness," Mr. Bush said. "Our 
enemies rely upon surprise and deception. They used to rely upon 
the fact that they thought we were soft. I don't think they 
think that way anymore."



Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company

