USA : Levi Strauss launches new slacks line .
Levi Strauss launches new slacks line .
SAN FRANCISCO 1996-08-20
Levi Strauss & Co. said Tuesday it was launching a line of slacks meant to appeal to men who do_ n't like suits , in only the third major brand introduction in the company's 140-year history .
The new slacks , to be called Slates , will be marketed as dressier than the company's famous jeans or its Dockers pants brand , but not as formal as suits .
The pants , to be aimed at men in their 30s and 40s who grew up wearing Levi's jeans and Dockers khakis , are meant to give a big boost to the San Francisco-based clothing company , though how well men accept the new line remains to be seen , industry analysts said .
"_ We_ 're going to awaken a sleeping giant of a category that we think has enormous potential , _" Jann Westfall , president of the Slates brand , said in a statement .
Those men want something different to wear as the workplace gets more casual , "_ a new look for business and social occasions that falls between casual cotton pants and suits , _" Westfall said .
The pants will come in flannel , wool gabardine and other fabrics with a suggested retail price of $50 to $90 a pair , said Lory Cogan , Levi vice president for marketing .
The new line will come in a broad range of styles , colours and sizes , and the pants in most cases will not require tailoring , which Levi hopes will lure men who want hassle-free shopping .
Cogan said research revealed that men hate to shop for dress pants and believe "_ it_ 's more enjoyable to go to the dentist _" because they ca_ n't find what they need or like .
Slates aims to change that when it makes its debut this fall in department stores , backed by a $20 million marketing campaign .
"_ They will probably dominate the market , _" said retail consultant Alan Millstein .
He added that slacks are a small market with very few players , such as the Haggar and Farah brands .
He said that Levi Strauss is trying to expand its business by going after the $1.9 billion-a-year market , but he does_ n't see it as a "_ great growth engine _" for the company .
Millstein questioned how many pairs of slacks men would buy at the prices set by Levi's .
A research study done last year for the company showed that 85 percent of American companies that had a traditional dress code were now allowing some form of more casual attire in the workplace .
In a national telephone survey of men in their 30s and 40s , almost half of men who do not work in jeans or a uniform said their office dress code is somewhere between suits and cotton pants , according_to Levi Strauss .
Westfall believes Slates will allow men to express more individuality , youthfulness and personal style than they can in a suit .
She said the pants have an "_ accessible style . _"
The privately held company , which employs 36,000 people around the world , had global sales of $6.7 billion in 1995 .
	
