	
GABORONE Sept 17 Sapa SADC, USAID SIGN DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS 
	
	
 Executive secretary of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Prega Ramsamy and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) on Monday signed dollar-based agreements to up American aid to SADC in three areas. 
	
	
 In rand-terms, an additional R7,77-million was committed for drought relief to bring the total to R44-million; R6,48-million to support the objective of achieving an integrated regional market in southern Africa, bringing the total committed to R189-million; and R898560 in support of strengthening regional economies through non governmental organisations, bringing the total committed to the programme to R88,99-million. 
	
	
 The three programmes are virtually open ended, being topped up as projects finish and others are initiated. "This signing sends a message to SADC of the importance with which the new US administration views regional integration in southern Africa," US ambassador to Botswana John Lange, who is also the special representative of the US government to SADC, said. "It is US policy to continue this type of cooperation." 
	
	
 Ramsamy also condemned last Tuesday's terror attacks in the United States. "The SADC secretariat condemns unreservedly and in the strongest terms this act of terrorism," he said. Replying, Lange said: "The day September 11, 2001 has become one of the worst days in American history. "It was not only an attack on our global village, but the foundations of democracy. We are grateful for the strong support expressed by the international community, particularly the SADC member states." 
	
	
 Ramsamy also read a joint statement made on Thursday at the close of a meeting of SADC foreign and finance ministers in Blantyre, Malawi, labelling the terror attacks ghastly and barbaric. "We learnt of the attacks with great shock and sorrow," the ministers said. "We strongly condemn this ghastly and barbaric act of terrorism and wanton destruction of property and the loss of innocent lives. The people of the US are known for their strong sense of justice which will no doubt see them through this trying time and bring the culprits to book." 
	
	
 The 14 members of SADC are: Angola, Botswana, Democratic Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
	
	
 Source : Sapa /le/wj Date : 17 Sep 2001 19:53	


