
Bush Takes Great Leap Forward In Pledging U.S. Help In Defending Taiwan

 





  In a closed-door meeting in Florida last week, the Bush 
administration took a great leap forward in its declared policy 
that Taiwan remain separate from China so long as the people of 
Taiwan wish, even if that requires U.S. military force.

  The host of the three-day U.S.-Taiwan Defense Summit was Frank 
Carlucci, chairman of the U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, onetime 
deputy director of central intelligence, national security 
adviser to President Reagan, later secretary of defense and 
possibly the most secretive official in Washington in many 
years.

  Why the meeting was so hidden was not clear, other than to avoid 
flaunting it in the face of China, which claims sovereignty over 
Taiwan and protests every American action favoring the island. 
Even so, enough leaked out to illuminate President Bush's 
policy, which has been consistent ever since he enunciated it 
during his campaign for the presidency.

  The centerpiece was a visit by Taiwan's defense minister, Tang 
Yao-ming, the first since President Carter switched U.S. 
diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China in 1979. That Tang 
was invited was more evidence that Bush has adopted the most 
pro-Taiwan posture of any president in nearly a quarter century; 
his stance differs distinctly from that of President Clinton, 
who tilted in favor of Beijing.

  The senior U.S. official at the gathering was Deputy Secretary 
of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, who has written: "It would be a 
strategic as well as a moral mistake for the United States to 
ever let China use force to have its way with Taiwan." He has 
cautioned, however, that the United States expected Taiwan to 
avoid provoking China.

  Tang asserted that Taiwan would do no such thing. After talking 
with Wolfowitz for two hours, Tang said he had guaranteed that 
his government would "by no means take any provocative step" 
toward China.

  The meeting, at an exclusive resort in St. Petersburg, brought 
out representatives of America's biggest defense contractors -- 
Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, General 
Dynamics, United Technologies, Textron, Honeywell International, 
and United Defense. Among them, they make every weapon Taiwan 
could possibly want to fend off the expanding might of China.

  China's military threat to Taiwan is not immediate. Adm. Dennis 
Blair, who commands U.S. forces in the Pacific, told Congress 
recently: "The PLA (Peoples Liberation Army) is still years away 
from the capability to take and hold Taiwan."

  The admiral cautioned, however: "Continued improvements in 
Taiwan's capabilities and development of USPACOM (United States 
Pacific Command) capabilities will be necessary to maintain 
sufficient defense."

  Bush began enunciating his policy on Taiwan in November 1999, 
saying that he would honor "our promises to the people of 
Taiwan" and "we deny the right of Beijing to impose their rule 
on a free people."

  The Republican election platform reflected the candidate's 
policy: "All issues regarding Taiwan's future must be resolved 
peacefully and must be agreeable to the people of Taiwan." It 
said that if China attacked Taiwan, "the United States will 
respond appropriately in accordance with the Taiwan Relations 
Act."

  The TRA, adopted after Carter broke relations with Taiwan, 
commits the United States to provide defensive arms to Taiwan 
and to view a threat from China with "grave concern." Bush has 
repeatedly referred to the TRA in a not-so-subtle message to 
China that the law is the bedrock of his posture on Taiwan.

  The most succinct statement of the Bush policy came from 
Secretary of State Colin Powell during his Senate confirmation 
hearing in January 2001: "We expect and demand a peaceful 
settlement, one acceptable to people on both sides of the Taiwan 
Strait."

  Shortly after Bush took office, he approved the largest U.S. 
arms sale to Taiwan, allowing Taiwan to buy four destroyers, 
eight diesel-powered submarines, 12 anti-submarine aircraft and 
a flock of missiles and other weapons.

  At the same time, he said the United States would do whatever it 
takes to help defend Taiwan. He told an interviewer: "China must 
know that if circumstances warrant, that we will uphold the 
spirit of the Taiwan Relations Act." Whatever decision Bush 
makes, a defense official said, the Pacific Command is ready "to 
respond to any potential crisis, including the use of force 
against Taiwan by China."

  The critical question: Will the Chinese, noting American 
military operations in Afghanistan, heed these warnings or will 
they miscalculate and try to call Bush's bluff?

  Richard Halloran is a former correspondent for The New York 
Times in Asia and a former editorial director of the 
Star-Bulletin. His column appears Sundays.

