 UK : SOCCER-ITALY FACE CRUCIAL TEST AGAINST POLAND .
	

     SOCCER-ITALY FACE CRUCIAL TEST AGAINST POLAND .
	

     Barney Spender
	

     LONDON 1997-03-31
	

     Christian Vieri had the honour of celebrating his international debut on Saturday by scoring Italy's 1,000th goal but another against Poland in Chorzow on Wednesday could have the greater long-term significance .
	

     Having already beaten England at Wembley , a win for Cesare Maldini's men would effectively secure their place at next year's World Cup finals in France .
     Link: S6 [Comments: ]
	

     It would put them six points clear at the top of European group two with home games against their main challengers still to come .
	

     And Saturday's 3-0 win over Moldova in Trieste was the perfect preparation .
	

     Three well-taken goals and three valuable points but still room for improvement against a Polish team which also came close to upsetting England at Wembley and who give nothing away on their home turf .
	

     "_ Poland will be a difficult side to play against but if we go there and play with the same attitude that we showed tonight , then things should go well , _" said Stefano Eranio after the Moldova match .
	

     Maldini is likely to stick as closely as possible to Saturday's side although Lazio defender Alessandro Nesta and Parma striker Enrico Chiesa are out .
	
     The game in Chorzow is one of 12 on Wednesday which should shake up the European qualifiers .
	

     In group one , Croatia can go top if they beat pointless Slovenia in Split and leaders Greece slip up against Bosnia in Sarajevo .
	

     But , after the 1-1 draw against Denmark , Croatian coach Miroslav Blazevic has already rung the changes .
	

     Goalkeeper Drazen Ladic , responsible for Brian Laudrup's late equaliser , has gone not just from the starting line-up but from the bench as well .
	

    Tonci Gabric is set to replace him .
	

     Top scorer Davor Suker will also be missing after collecting a second yellow card against the Danes while Robert Jarni and Zvonimir Soldo are struggling with injuries .
	

     Noises from the Greek camp suggest a_few nerves about the prospect of the trip to Sarajevo .
	

     "_ My players are tired .
	

     The entire Bosnian team is dangerous and they will certainly play better from the first match in Greece .
	

    But we are going to Bosnia to win , _" coach Costas Polychroniou said .
	

     The Bosnians , meanwhile , are bubbling with confidence about the prospect of playing in front of 40,000 at the Kosevo Olympic Stadium .
	

     "_ I think I_ 'll get a goal and we_ 'll win the match , _" said captain Meho Kodro .
	

     Group four throws together the two leaders as Scotland , 2-0 winners over Estonia on Saturday , look to consolidate their place at the top with a win over Austria in Glasgow .
	

     The Austrians are without three players , including Werder Bremen forward Heimo Pfeifenberger who is nursing a broken toe , but coach Herbert Prohaska has remained philosophical .
	

     "_ There is no point in sulking , we will have to do with what we have , _" he said .
	

    Bulgaria can leapfrog Israel and Russia to take over at the top of group five if they beat Cyprus in Sofia .
	

     The 1994 World Cup semifinalists won the earlier game in Nicosia 3-1 but will be well aware of the Cypriots' surprise 1-1 draw against the Russians at the weekend .
	
     After a comfortable 4-0 win over San Marino , the Netherlands face a sterner test against Turkey in Ankara as they look to make it five out_of five in group seven .
	

     Fear of flying sees Dennis Bergkamp excused from duty .
	

     The Arsenal striker is replaced by Ronald de Boer of Ajax .
	

     Romania will stay top of group eight if they beat Lithuania in Vilnius although the Republic of Ireland can keep up the pressure with a good result from their trip to Macedonia .
	
In group nine , Germany should have a comfortable ride against Albania .
	
The match has been moved to the Spanish town of Granada for security reasons because_of the strife in Albania .
	
Azerbaijan play Finland in group three's basement battle in Baku .
	
	