That is the vexing question facing Mr Lewis Preston, the former chairman of J P Morgan, the New York bank, who takes over as president of the World Bank this September. The US Treasury wants the bank to bypass the governments of developing countries and lend sizeable sums directly to the private sector. The bank is also under pressure to follow the example of Mr Jacques Attali's European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and attach strict political conditions to its loans. Development economists, meanwhile, are urging the bank to respect the rhetoric of last year's World Development Report and focus more on poverty alleviation. Few in Washington now doubt that the bank is needed: new imperatives, such as reconstruction in eastern Europe and the Middle East, have merely been superimposed on older, unsolved problems: Grinding poverty is a near universal condition in much of the world: 1bn people live on less than Dollars 1 a day. What kind of bank will Mr Preston inherit from his predecessor, Mr Barber Conable? 'The morale of staff is lousy,' says Mr Charles Flickner, a senior analyst on the Senate Budget Committee and close observer of the bank. Mr Conable, a former Republican congressman, arrived at the bank in 1986 knowing little about either banking or development. Although now well-liked (partly for championing causes such as women's rights in the Third World), many observers say he never fully recovered from a rocky start involving a divisive internal reorganisation of the bank. Mr Percy Mistry, a scholar at Queen Elizabeth House, Oxford, and former senior adviser at the bank, says it suffered from 'presidential failure' during the 1980s. For a decade the bank has effectively been run by two senior - and strong-willed - vice-presidents: Mr Ernest Stern (who nearly left last year to join the EBRD) and Mr Moeen Qureshi. Mr Preston's first challenge, says Mr Mistry, will be to wrest control of the bank from Messrs Stern and Qureshi; his second, to prune legions of 'useless advisers' and install managers with real-world experience. 'The bank failed to take a timely leadership position on the debt crisis,' concludes Mr Richard Feinberg, director of the Overseas Development Council in Washington. As incoming president, Mr Preston must review the bank's strategies for promoting development. This is both because countries failed to abide by the loan conditions and because the bank's policies were sometimes misguided. Professor John Toye, director of the Institute for Development Studies at Sussex University, recently completed an exhaustive analysis of bank programmes. He concludes (as do internal bank analyses) that policy-based lending has 'achieved something, particularly in relation to the external account, but not nearly as much as the bank and donor community hoped'. The maturing of bank programmes and the failure to expand lending much in the 1980s has led to a marked shrinkage in its net transfers to developing countries. According to Mr Lawrence Summers, the bank's chief economist, net transfers over the next five years will be about Dollars 2 per person in the developing world compared with Dollars 9 (in current prices) in the late 1970s. The World Bank operates under very different rules: its charter requires it to be non-political and only its small affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), can make direct loans to private businesses. If strict political conditionality had been imposed in the past, the bank could not have lent to a development star such as South Korea. Bank officials say greater attention will be paid to issues such as the rule of law and transparency of decision-taking. Should a significant chunk of the bank's loans be made direct to the private sector? He says the bank's main aim is to combat poverty and that it will seek a 'balanced relationship between government and the market' in developing countries. Advocates of a switch to direct support of the private sector are surely not arguing for public subsidies for Third World entrepreneurs; but if subsidies are ruled out, why should the bank's judgment of market risk be more reliable than that of private lenders in the west? The bank's own research department is highlighting the need to relieve poverty directly and to improve fundamentals, such as education, nutrition and health care. Mr Feinberg at the Overseas Development Council broadly agrees: the bank has got to find a way of 'melding equity and efficiency as it promotes development'. The challenge for Mr Preston is clear: put the sterile ideological battles of the 1980s behind the bank and develop policies that put greater emphasis on the formation of human capital. Mr Summers, the bank's economist, says pessimistically that because development money will be in short supply over the next decade, the bank and other donors will have to concentrate on exporting ideas. 