Terry Anderson spent a fifth birthday as a hostage today, a grim milestone in his captivity. The daily newspapers An-Nahar and As-Safir and the French-language L'Orient-Le Jour published English texts of letters to Anderson, the chief Middle East correspondent of The Associated Press who was abducted March 16, 1985. His sister, Peggy Say, wrote, "In honor of your birthday on Friday, we will be in Washington with other hostage families to mark another sad year in which you have been denied your freedom." The Journalists' Committee to Free Terry Anderson, made up of colleagues from all over the United States, wrote: "Please believe that not a day passes when we do not think of you and pray for you." The Foreign Correspondents Club of Japan said it was sending a 33-foot birthday scroll to Anderson signed by 59 journalists and former colleagues in Tokyo. Gunmen seized the 42-year-old Anderson in Moslem west Beirut after a game of tennis that had been a brief respite from his reporting on Lebanon's civil war. Anderson's fate now appears to be caught up in a power struggle between Shiite Moslem radicals and moderates. Police say Lebanese authorities have no information on the whereabouts of Anderson or the 15 other Western hostages in Lebanon. Four days ago, Islamic Jihad made its first statement in a year, reviving an old offer to trade Anderson and Sutherland for their comrades jailed in Kuwait. The statement was seen as a response to a declaration Monday by President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran that he would use its influence to free the hostages if the United States released Iranian assets worth up to $12 billion that have been frozen since 1979. Anderson and Sutherland are among eight American hostages, most believed held by pro-Iranians. Since he was kidnapped, Anderson has been allowed to write a few letters to his family and occasionally to see Lebanese newspaper and television reports about relatives. Anderson knows his daughter, Sulome, was born June 7, 1985, but has seen her only in a few seconds of film his captors allowed him to watch on Lebanese TV, according to letters from him released by the kidnappers. 