THE SHARP deterioration in relations between Britain and China over Hong Kong's political future has cast a pall over the colony's financial markets. Relations between the UK and China have deteriorated markedly since Mr Patten, with the general support of the Hong Kong people, announced proposals on October 7 for elections in 1994 and 1995 which would allow for greater, though still limited, democracy in choosing local leaders. Since then, the governor has repeatedly held out the possibility that he will proceed with his plans even in the face of opposition from China - marking a change in British policy towards Hong Kong and China. Such a head-to-head contest between Beijing and Britain's governor in Hong Kong would be without precedent in the colony. It would require from the people of Hong Kong a defiance of Beijing which many of their business and political leaders have been reluctant to make for fear of damaging their interests. On Friday, Lu Ping, China's top official on Hong Kong affairs, said Beijing would challenge the validity of future elections and abrogate agreements to build the colony's multi-billion dollar airport if Mr Patten proceeded without China's agreement. Since then China has found fault with two alternative financing proposals put to it by the Hong Kong government. It claims that both are not cost-effective and would put an onerous financial burden on the post-1997 government in Hong Kong - charges which find little support in Hong Kong's financial community. He claimed the governor's plans violated the 1984 Anglo-British Joint Declaration on Hong Kong and the Basic Law, which will act as Hong Kong's post-1997 constitution. The governor said he was prepared to discuss these alternatives with China but reminded legislators that any alternatives had to be fair, open and command the support of the people of Hong Kong. Some of the colony's newspapers also expressed concern about China's reaction to the governor's proposals. 'Nothing can absolve members of this council from taking a view on the future political development of Hong Kong.' According to aides, the governor believes he can carry the legislature; in the event of failure to find agreement with China, they promise a publicity campaign of the sort which prepared the colony for his policy speech. Mr Patten has said, however, that what he finally proposes has to be 'acceptable to the people of Hong Kong'. 