WHEN Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's newly-appointed governor, arrives in the colony in July he will find that, five years away from its reversion to Chinese sovereignty, Hong Kong is thriving. In one year share prices on the Hong Kong stock exchange have risen by nearly 40 per cent; so, too, have property prices. To judge by the stock market, property prices, and bilateral trade with and investment in China, Hong Kong appears to have come to terms with its future ruler. The economic integration of Hong Kong with China is, considering that it has occurred just over the past 10 years, nothing short of astonishing. During that time Hong Kong has reverted to a role it occupied before the Second World War: that of entrepot for China's trade with the outside world. Last year, Hong Kong exported goods with a value of HKDollars 765.8bn; of these HKDollars 534.8 were 're-exports', more than 80 per cent of which related to trade with China. But for the re-export trade, Hong Kong would have a visible trade deficit with the rest of the world because it is becoming more of a service area and transferring some of its manufacturing to south China. This change in Hong Kong's economy could not have happened without the historic change of course China embarked upon in 1979. Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, opened the country's door and Hong Kong's entrepreneurs rushed in. Today, Hong Kong's factory owners in Guangdong - the Chinese province bordering the colony - employ between 2m and 3m workers; Hong Kong supplies China with an estimated 40 per cent of its foreign exchange earnings by virtue of Chinese goods flowing through the colony, earnings of mainland companies in the colony and remittances by local people to families still in China; and, Hong Kong is the source of 60 per cent of foreign investment in China. Yet, in spite of the extraordinary economic integration that has taken place over the past decade, China, at a political level, divides Hong Kong society and politics. Although the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong's future which Britain and China signed in September 1984 and the Basic Law which the Chinese parliament passed in April 1991 provide for the maintenance of Hong Kong's way of life and a 'high degree of autonomy', the colony's citizens have continued to vote with their feet, seeking the protection of foreign lands and the passports they offer. There have been cases of Hong Kong Chinese returning to the colony but this is hardly surprising given that their most popular destinations - Canada, the US and Australia - have all been suffering economic downturns. They wish to retain Hong Kong's free-wheeling capitalist system, are suspicious of their elected brethren whom, they claim with some justice, wish to spend the colony's wealth before it is earned. Yet Mr Patten's main task is to preside over the peaceful transfer of Hong Kong to China in 1997. He will also have to deal with Mr Lu Ping, head of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, and China's most senior official in charge of day-to-day Hong Kong Affairs. 