Liz Taylor's latest bout with pneumonia has drawn the kind of intense scrutiny normally accorded presidential polyps. But then Liz Taylor, 58, has always lived a life of extremes. It was partly to still the gossips that Taylor's doctors called a press conference Wednesday at St. John's Hospital and Medical Center in Santa Monica. For the tabloid press had been humming with rumors that Liz Taylor had AIDS virtually since she was checked into Daniel Freeman Hospital in Marina del Rey April 9 with a high fever and sinus infection. And when Taylor's publicists first issued flat denials, the press went on to speculate about the speculation. Did the AIDS rumors start because of Taylor's ballyhooed friendship with publishing titan Malcolm Forbes, whose recent death touched off reports about his alleged homosexuality? Or because one of her doctors, Michael Roth, was a renowned AIDS specialist -- even though Roth was supervising her treatment for drug and alcohol addiction as early as 1983? Liz is as close to American royalty as you can have, and our readers... in the heartland... they're living and dying with her, said Barry Levine, Hollywood bureau chief of the Star, which featured a cover photograph of Liz, hooked up to an intravenous tube and oxygen mask, being transferred from the Marina del Rey hospital to St. John's. Behind a chorus line of video cameras -- representing the major networks, the local stations, CNN and the tabloid shows -- reporters peppered the doctors with pointed and sometimes testy questions about Taylor's treatment and drug use. Taylor was off a respirator and breathing with the help of an oxygen mask. Although Taylor's physicians are still trying to identify the virus, they are treating her for pneumonia with antibiotics. If Liz's public is fascinated by her frailties, perhaps reassured somehow by the knowledge that even the gods are vulnerable, their interest is also piqued by the public face she puts on her relentless brushes with illness and addiction. The Taylor wit shone through even Wednesday's press conference, when doctors passed on the actress' desire to come out and wave at you, but she wasn't in her balcony attire. Taylor's respiratory ailments alone have been a recurring problem. Bronchitis and laryngitis brought down the curtain on numerous performances of The Little Foxes, which Taylor starred in on Broadway in 1981, and Noel Coward's Private Lives, which toured the country in 1983. In fact, Taylor has been plagued by health woes ever since her 1945 film debut in National Velvet ; her fall from a horse triggered a lifetime of back trouble. And when Taylor retired from films to marry the Republican senator from Virginia, John Warner, her well-being continued to make headlines; she choked on a chicken bone and wrenched her back after slipping on a carpet at a reception honoring former President Gerald R. Ford. Over the years she has endured about 20 major operations on her back, appendix, eyes and teeth; when the Asian flu threatened Taylor's life, doctors made a hole in her throat so she could breathe. Taylor's unhappy stint as a politician's wife prompted her weight to balloon to 180 pounds. Her addictions have even been linked to a criminal investigation by the Los Angeles County district attorney's office; last week, prosecutors announced that no charges would be filed against Taylor's doctors, who had been accused of over-prescribing dependence-forming drugs. Taylor, the first celebrity known to enter the Betty Ford clinic in Rancho Mirage, made a public example of her willingness to take on her addictions in two heavily publicized stays there. When Taylor first checked in, in 1983, she admitted to 35 years of addiction to pain killers and sleeping pills. But the Betty Ford clinic encouraged Taylor only to fight the good fights that had brought her there, rather than take on all addictions -- to drugs and food -- at once. Taylor regained much of the weight, even though she took her drug problems in hand once again in a second stay at the Betty Ford clinic in 1988. Typical Liz Taylor. 