Allegations of police racism and brutality have shaken this city that for decades has prided itself on a progressive attitude toward civil rights and a reputation for racial harmony. The deaths of two blacks at a drug raid that went awry, followed 10 days later by a scuffle between police and blacks at a downtown hotel, touched off an outcry by minority leaders for an outside review of the department. I think we're approaching that breaking point," said Van Hayden, 25, a student who says police beat him at the hotel. The city's police chief, John Laux, says there is no reason to assume the department would be immune to a problem that is present in all segments of society. In a letter to police supervisors in mid-February, Laux said: "Let me make one thing perfectly clear _ any act of bias will be dealt with directly and severely. In a series of rallies in recent weeks, protesters demanded that officers involved in the drug raid be suspended, charges against those arrested at the hotel be dropped, and that a citizen police review board be established. "There are bad apples in every bunch and the Minneapolis Police Department is no exception," said Councilwoman Sayles Belton. 25 in a fire that started after police hurled a stun grenade into their apartment, where others also lived, during a drug raid. In the hotel scuffle, police said they responsed to a call of a loud party. Gleason Glover, president of the Minneapolis Urban League, which works for interracial cooperation, said police racism has been a problem since he took over the league position 21 years ago. "The matter of police misconduct and brutality has been going on for at least the 21 years I've been here, but I think the deaths pushed the issue beyond the point of tolerance that usually is the case in matters of police misconduct," Glover said. Laux opposes establisment of a citizen panel to look into police actions. "The key point is that any time the head of the police department cannot hire, fire or impose discipline, you are no longer in charge," he said. 