It was a painful day for his relatives and friends.; It's been like a big roller coaster ride about his release, Anderson's 36-year-old brother John said from his home in Ocala, Fla. Two German hostages are still being held.; The secretary-general said at U.N. headquarters that no deal had been made by U.N. officials guaranteeing the hostage-takers immunity from retaliation.; In exchange for the hostage releases, the kidnappers were reported by Iran's Tehran Radio this week to have been promised that they would not be pursued by the United States, Germany or any other country.; Confusion about Anderson's whereabouts arose after a five-page Arabic-language statement from the Islamic Jihad group that held Anderson announced today he would be set free, but its wording was unclear as to whether he had already been released.; Anderson said in a videotaped statement released today by his captors to the Associated Press in Damascus that he was to be freed. They had flown to Damascus from their home in Cyprus.; Despite the delay, there was a mood of calm and optimism among friends and relatives who gathered to greet Anderson in Damascus.; Anderson's estranged wife, Mihoko, and their 15-year-old daughter Gabrielle, who live in Tokyo, declined comment.; Anderson's release marks the end of the seven-year American hostage drama in Lebanon, which brought an outpouring of public support for the captives and put intense pressure on the Reagan and Bush administrations to get them out.; The hostage saga comes to an end for the United States amid changing political alignments in the Middle East after the Persian Gulf war and the end of the Cold War, moves by Iran to improve ties with Washington and skillful U.N. mediation.; The hostage-holders have in the past few years been isolated by the desire of Syria and Iran to improve ties with the West.; This week's releases follow by days Washington's payment to Iran of $278 million for weaponry impounded during the 1979-80 Tehran hostage crisis. The Germans were seized by Shiite militants seeking the release of Mohammed and Abbas Hamadi, brothers imprisoned in Germany on terrorism convictions.; Terry Anderson: chronology of captivity; 1985; March 16 - Anderson abducted on Beirut street by Islamic Jihad.; May 16 - First photo of Anderson in captivity released. Islamic Jihad warns of catastrophic consequences if Kuwait does not free terrorists.; June 7 - Anderson's daughter Sulome is born.; 1986; Feb. 3 - In a videotape, Anderson and hostage David Jacobsen urge Reagan to work hard for their release.; Nov. 26 -- Jacobsen says he has been told Anderson is being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day.; 1988; April 10 - Islamic Jihad threatens to kill the captives if any attempt is made to storm a hijacked Kuwaiti jetliner.; Aug. 5 -- Anderson's 2,000th day in captivity.; 1991; March 13 - In the wake of Iraq's defeat in the gulf war, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker visits Syria to discuss the hostages. 6 - In a videotape, Anderson urges all parties to accelerate negotiations to free Western hostages and says hundreds of Arab prisoners deserve freedom, too.; Oct. 