World Bank President Barber Conable was so well regarded during his 20-year career as a Republican congressman from New York that some journalists nicknamed him H.R. -- for highly respected. But at the World Bank, Mr. Conable finds himself under fire. After a year and a half in office, he has failed to move the bank into a leadership role on the Third World debt problem. The World Bank has been reluctant to step out on this issue in confrontation and conflict with the Treasury, charges Sen. There surely is a much larger role for the World Bank in the debt problem than it has played so far, but they just can't get out ahead of the administration, he says. While the debt morass has deepened, Mr. Conable's World Bank has looked inward, shuffling its organization charts around in a disruptive reorganization and then campaigning for a $74.8 billion increase in its capital. As Congress considers the increase, liberal critics on Capitol Hill are demanding that Mr. Conable show he is ready to use the bank's vast resources to make some direct impact on reducing the huge burden of Third World debt. The deletion was made pending action by a committee looking into the bank's approach to the debt crisis. He has clung to the bank's traditional role of a conventional lender and adviser to developing nations and has deferred on ideas about the debt to the man who picked him for his job -- U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker. Mr. Conable subscribes to the Baker Plan, which stresses new lending by commercial banks and the World Bank to debtor countries that adopt growth-oriented, market-based economic reforms. The bank has tried to help the countries by tiding them over with some new loans. Bradley, worried that the debt burden stalls growth and threatens political stability in developing countries, proposes that Third World debtors be required to make certain economic reforms; in return, their lending banks would forgive some of the loans and write them down on their books. Even the World Bank's longtime financial wizard, Eugene Rotberg -- who quit the bank for Merrill Lynch over Mr. Conable's reorganization plan -- proposed last month that the World Bank guarantee new 20-year commercial-bank loans to Third World countries. Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economist who has offered one of many debt-reduction plans, says the World Bank's officials have the great potential to play a central role in the problem, but they're basically ducking. While financial experts often urge the bank to do more, the ponderous institution has intervened only about half a dozen times in debt crises, usually just to guarantee a small portion of a commercial-bank loan package. Recently, commercial-bank lenders to Brazil tried to get the World Bank to insure a portion of a big new loan package they were negotiating. Yet even inside the bank, there is increasing worry that the Third World debt -- totaling $1.19 trillion last year -- frustrates the bank's goals. Because of chronic debt problems... the development process in these countries has stalled, the World Bank said earlier this year. Also within the bank's own ranks, there is talk that could lead to a more aggressive role on debt once President Reagan leaves office. The likelihood is that the bank will need to play a more extensive and diversified role in two areas: new money packages and facilitating other forms of financial relief, including debt-reduction schemes, declares the study, which was drafted by David Bock, a vice president and the bank's debt expert. The document even says that for a few debtors, consensual debt relief, including outright forgiveness, might be the only workable solution, but it stresses that the bank must avoid moves that threaten the preservation of the bank's prime standing in financial markets. The World Bank's ethos is decidedly traditional. The bank earns more than $1 billion annually, sports a top credit rating in securities markets and lent nearly $18 billion last year. The idea of the bank was to finance a wide range of economically basic construction across the developing world: roads in Africa, power projects in Asia, schools in Latin America, irrigation in India. Mr. Conable spent roughly a year reorganizing the bank so that project experts and country experts would work more closely. The new organization is more in tune with current Third World problems, but the change paralyzed the bank for months and delayed loan processing. Mr. Conable contends that the reorganization has helped a great deal in recapturing the support of our member countries, which had refused to approve the bank's budget just before he took office. If he disagrees, maybe we'll see some new ideas at the World Bank. Bank staffers cite a loan to Chile last year over U.S. opposition. But the new money is being swamped by interest payments, and commercial banks are putting up little new money of their own. Also that year, the World Bank took back in repayments $291 million more than it pumped into the three largest Latin debtors -- Brazil, Mexico and Argentina. Joseph Kennedy III, a Massachusetts Democrat, charges that the World Bank is just laundering funds that go back to the banks. He rejects any notion that the bank might get involved in directly refinancing or providing security for debt on a broad scale. But he doesn't have his own identity as president of the World Bank. 