Now, the U.S. faces the danger of fantasy becoming reality, and the next 48 hours pose the most vulnerable period. With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region, Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army, possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments. According to industry and other sources, the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port. The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass. Both Iraq and the U.S. yesterday appeared to move closer to confrontation in their public statements. The prospect of facing hundreds of thousands of soldiers in the desert is daunting enough for the U.S., but Iraq's chemical arsenal adds an additional dimension to the threat. The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack, according to U.S. officials, could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia, a base in the Indian Ocean. It remained unclear precisely what force the U.S. is dispatching to meet the 100,000 or more heavily-armored Iraqi troops massed on Kuwait's border. President Bush, Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refused to disclose the size of the force they have committed. Privately, U.S. officials say the estimates for the eventual U.S. commitment of troops, which began landing at Saudi bases yesterday afternoon, go as high as 40,000, and would include a carefully-tailored mix of light and armored units that may have to remain there for weeks or months. The duration of the U.S. commitment will, the officials added, depend on Iraq's response. As time passes without an Iraqi military move, the U.S. position grows stronger, military experts say. Mr. Davis, who previously worked on Middle East deployment scenarios in the Pentagon, expects that it will take days, not hours for the U.S. soldiers and airmen arriving to acclimate themselves to the hot desert arena where they may have to fight. If, as some industry and other officials believe, the captain demands that the Saudis honor their contractual commitment to fill the tanker, the U.S. will have to decide whether to stop the giant ship, using the awesome combat power of the nearby carrier Eisenhower and its twelve escort ships. More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each. Although the sudden U.S. moves to Saudi Arabia may seem ad-hoc, they draw on the experience of many war games, such as the one staged in Leavenworth last June by the Army Materiel Command. The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields. U.S. policy assumed then that the Saudis would not give U.S. forces basing rights, at least not in the initial stages of a conflict. The following afternoon, he and Robert Gates, the president's deputy advisor for national security; Paul Wolfowitz, Mr. Cheney's top policy aide; and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, soon to become overall commander of the growing nucleus of U.S. forces, were aloft. In Jeddah, after two hours of discussion, King Fahd, the Saudi ruler, gave his approval to the military options the U.S. officials presented. The orders were issued Monday evening, and the first U.S. unit to move -- believed to be the command staff of Gen. Schwarzkopf's Central Command at Tampa, Fla. -- took off at 7:30 a.m. By midnight, paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, the nation's most often-alerted unit, were lining up at Pope Air Force Base in Fayetteville, N.C., to take their places on the hard, nylon-webbing seats in the transports that would carry them and their hastily-assembled gear on the long trip across the Atlantic. Meanwhile, flight after flight of F-15's was taking off from Langley Air Force Base heading east, seeking the line of airborne tankers that were hovering, mid-ocean, to refuel them. Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units. They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to marry up with their equipment at points where the ships arrive. Gen. Powell dismissed concerns that the early arrivals might face the greatest danger, saying that fighters and attack aircraft from the carrier Independence, believed to be in the Gulf of Oman, were close enough to the Saudi shore to provide air cover to the arriving troops. Summing up his views of the potential enemy, Gen. Powell said, We view them as a capable military force. 