The official opening of the Channel Tunnel later this year promises to help revitalise the north-west regions of Belgium, even though the country's biggest ports will suffer a loss of traffic. The chambers of commerce in Veurne and Courtrai, along with the West Flanders Regional Development Authority in Bruges, are gearing up to become part of what they refer to as the 'new European Metropolitan Area.' According to Mr Anthony Vande Candelare, an urban planner who made a study of the influence of the Channel Tunnel on the west of Belgium and the North of France: 'Overnight, the Belgian coast and the North of France will become the centre of Europe.' Mr Jo Libeer, managing director of the Courtrai chamber of commerce, is equally optimistic about the likely impact on the area of the tunnel. 'With the TGV and the chunnel this region, which was sort of in the corner of Europe, will now be in the middle of a new developing area,' he says. Furthermore, Flanders, the area most likely to benefit from the arrival of the tunnel, has recently suffered more rapid increases in unemployment than in Wallonia and the Brussels region. The Belgian chambers in the regions most directly affected believe there are two main areas for development: firstly, increasing traffic through western Flanders as holidaymakers and freight carriers head towards the tunnel-opening in Calais; and secondly tourism. Nonetheless, the improved, if imperfect, transport communications of the West Flanders region are apparently paying off. Mr Geert Sanders, who works for the Regional Development Authority of West Flanders, says there is already evidence that the region's enhanced communications are attracting new businesses. There is, however, a danger that Belgium will not make the most of the commercial opportunities - 'we will try to attract new industry, but our region is very small and our industrial zones are full,' says Mr Ludo Verstraete, of the Veurne chamber of commerce. West Flanders is home to some of the best-known World War One battlefields, and promoters of the region insist that its large, open green spaces will, when properly developed, attract foreign visitors. 