Just two weeks ago, anticipation of a possible release intensified when Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani said he saw the hostage ordeal moving toward a solution. The Iranian news media have begun referring to the hostages again as American spies. On Thursday, the terrorist group calling itself Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine released a statement threatening to execute three American professors who were taken hostage in 1987: Robert Polhill, Alann Steen and Jesse Turner. Asked by reporters Friday whether he had any optimistic news for the families of the hostages, Bush demurred. Opponents of the Iranian regime said they see no reason to believe that a hostage release is imminent. They use them (hostages) as a card to play for internal political purposes, said Alireza Jafarzadeh, a spokesman for the Moujahedeen, the principal Iranian opposition group. Bush told reporters: I'm going to do everything I can to get those hostages out of there, sometimes privately, sometimes publicly. Say, who in the past has criticized U.S. officials over the lack of progress on the hostage issue, said she was reassured that Bush is doing all he can. She also said she had faith that all the hostages would be released in the coming weeks. The Lafayette Park ceremony was sponsored by No Greater Love, a Washington-based support group for the families of the hostages. Yellow flowers were placed beside the names of the nine Western hostages who are known to have been slain in Lebanon since 1985. Then, young children came forth, one by one, carrying photos of some of the Westerners who are still held hostage in Lebanon. In Paris, former hostages Jean-Paul Kauffman and Roger Auque put on blindfolds and chained themselves to a tree outside the Iranian Embassy to protest Anderson's captivity. The two were among 10 French hostages released by their captors in Lebanon between 1986 and 1988. Meanwhile, in Damascus, former President Jimmy Carter met Friday with Syrian President Hafez Assad and also expressed optimism about the fate of the hostages. In a letter published by seven Beirut newspapers, Anderson's wife, Madeline Bassil, told her husband that she and their daughter also feel like hostages. The families of the hostages have received little news of their condition other than an occasional -- and often distressing -- photo. 