Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr., his family and his business empire poured nearly $350,000 into state politics during 1985 and 1986, with about half of it going to Gov. Along with the $173,000 donated to Deukmejian's campaign, Keating's family and business connections also contributed $176,500 over the two years to Democratic and Republican groups and such politicians as then-Assembly Republican Leader Pat Nolan of Glendale and Gray Davis in his successful race for state controller. The figures do not include at least $83,336 in contributions made personally or through the firms of two other Keating associates -- Los Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian and San Diego businessman Tom C. Stickel. In April, Keating's American Continental Corp. of Phoenix filed for bankruptcy, prompting federal officials to immediately take over its subsidiary Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan. As attorneys, he hired fund raiser Samuelian and Franklin Tom, a former state commissioner of savings and loan who left public service to join Samuelian's Los Angeles law firm. His coalition of contributors included his family -- son Charles Keating III and three sons-in-law -- and his corporations, including American Continental, Lincoln Savings and three other subsidiaries. The group also included eight employees and executives, such as American Continental Vice President Robert J. Kielty and consultant Taggart, as well as Phoenix business associate Conley Wolfs-winkel, who bought 6,150 acres in Tucson with American Continental in 1985. The governor received $80,000 directly from American Continental and Lincoln Savings; $19,000 from Keating and his family members; $51,000 from other American Continental subsidiaries and executives; and $23,000 from Keating business associates. The governor has said that he met Keating only once and never knew of Lincoln's financial woes until he read about them in newspaper reports this year. * Keating and associates gave $176,500 to other state political organizations and politicians. They also gave $17,000 to four legislators -- Nolan, who authored the law deregulating the savings and loan industry in 1982; Assembly Rules Committee Chairman Tom Bane (D-Van Nuys); Assemblyman Bruce Bronzan (D-Fresno), and Assemblyman Dennis Brown (R-Los Alamitos). * Stickel and TCS contributed $50,666 in money, staff time and office space to Deukmejian and the Republican Party. 