Consider: -- Mr. Milken's guilty plea to six felony counts Tuesday makes it impossible for him to claim in civil cases that he was guilty of no market fraud. In each case, the former junk bond impresario will be viewed as a convicted felon. -- So much evidence against him has already been gathered by federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission, much of which will eventually become available to shareholder lawyers, that plaintiffs' attorneys will have to do relatively little sleuthing of their own. -- While Mr. Milken didn't plead guilty to any racketeering counts, recent court cases have made it increasingly easy to show a so-called pattern of racketeering in civil cases. As he eagerly scanned the early wire reports of the plea Tuesday, Mr. Greenfield said Mr. Milken should seriously contemplate filing for bankruptcy-court protection. It's a very real possibility, said Mr. Greenfield, who has filed several cases against Mr. Milken. Steven Rosenfeld, an attorney for Mr. Milken, says there are no plans whatsoever for his client to seek bankruptcy-court protection. Mr. Greenfield's firm filed the suit along with plaintiff lawyer William S. Lerach of the shareholder law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie and Lerach. Meanwhile, at Mr. Milken's direction, arbitragers would purchase big blocks of stock in the target company with guarantees against loss provided by Mr. Milken, the suit claims. Also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against Mr. Boesky, Drexel, Mr. Milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations. Many of these cases are pending in federal court in New York, where pretrial fact-finding has been slowed because of the unavailability of Mr. Boesky, Mr. Milken and others to testify at depositions. Finally, a sprinkling of cases across the country target Mr. Milken among many other defendants in cases alleging that savings and loans associations and other companies suffered losses because they purchased large portfolios of Drexel's junk bonds as part of back-scratching arrangements with Mr. Milken. Mr. Greenfield likens them to the asbestos cases that led to the Chapter 11 bankruptcy-court filing of Manville Corp., the giant asbestos manufacturer. But a spokesman for Mr. Pickens's Mesa Petroleum Co., a defendant in the Unocal case, calls the allegations silly stuff. A civil case is always easier to prove than a criminal case because the civil plaintiff doesn't have to prove his charges beyond a reasonable doubt. Nonetheless, the plaintiff's lawyers agree that winning a trial against Mr. Milken wouldn't be easy. Alan Bromberg, a law professor at Southern Methodist University, says showing a chain of bond purchases doesn't necessarily prove that Mr. Milken was in control of the sellers and buyers, but it does permit that inference. The outcome of the case will depend on whether the jury believes there was a conspiracy or the sellers and purchasers of bonds made independent judgments. Mr. Bromberg and others assert that Mr. Liman, Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, negotiated to make the plea agreement narrow enough so that little of what Mr. Milken admitted to can be used against him in the civil suits. Thus, the government's full case against Mr. Freeman, who had pleaded guilty to just one insider trading charge, was kept from public view. In the Milken case, however, prosecutors are expected to outline a broad scheme of alleged wrongdoing, involving a wide range of companies and securities. Those charges could be exceedingly helpful to plainitffs lawyers building civil cases against him. Realistically, it's highly unlikely that the civil cases against Mr. Milken will ever go to trial. Most shareholder cases are settled, and Mr. Greenfield says he has had only two jury trials in the past six years, while handling scores of suits. But settlements work only if both sides believe they are making a fair compromise, considering what the damages might be if the case went to trial. And, in the Milken litigation, settling so many high-stakes cases could be a long and tricky process in itself. --- Major Actions Against Milken, Others CASE: Unocal Corp. DEFENDANTS: Defendants include Michael and Lori Milken, T. Boone Pickens, Paul Bilzerian, Carl Icahn, Irwin Jacobs, Ronald Perelman and many others. 