Cracks appeared Tuesday in the U.N. trade embargo against Iraq as Saddam Hussein sought to circumvent the economic noose around his country. Hoping to defuse criticism that it is not doing its share to oppose Baghdad, Japan said up to $2 billion in aid may be sent to nations most affected by the U.N. embargo on Iraq. The Philippines and Namibia, the first of the developing nations to respond to an offer Monday by Saddam of free oil _ in exchange for sending their own tankers to get it _ said no to the Iraqi leader. Saddam's offer was seen as a none-too-subtle attempt to bypass the U.N. embargo, in effect since four days after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, by getting poor countries to dock their tankers in Iraq. But according to a State Department survey, Cuba and Romania have struck oil deals with Iraq and companies elsewhere are trying to continue trade with Baghdad, all in defiance of U.N. sanctions. A well-informed source in Tehran told The Associated Press that Iran has agreed to an Iraqi request to exchange food and medicine for up to 200,000 barrels of refined oil a day and cash payments. Well-informed oil industry sources in the region, contacted by The AP, said that although Iran is a major oil exporter itself, it currently has to import about 150,000 barrels of refined oil a day for domestic use because of damages to refineries in the gulf war. Along similar lines, ABC News reported that following Aziz's visit, Iraq is apparently prepared to give Iran all the oil it wants to make up for the damage Iraq inflicted on Iran during their conflict. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, meanwhile, met in Moscow with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, two days after the U.S.-Soviet summit that produced a joint demand that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait. "A soldier can rape a father's daughter in front of him and he can't do anything about it." _The State Department said Iraq had told U.S. officials that American males residing in Iraq and Kuwait who were born in Arab countries will be allowed to leave. Japan, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the crisis in the gulf, said Tuesday it may give $2 billion to Egypt, Jordan and Turkey, hit hardest by the U.N. prohibition on trade with Iraq. But critics in the United States have said Japan should do more because its economy depends heavily on oil from the Middle East. On Monday, Saddam offered developing nations free oil if they would send their tankers to pick it up. Manila said it had already fulfilled its oil requirements, and Namibia said it would not "sell its sovereignty" for Iraqi oil. Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez dismissed Saddam's offer of free oil as a "propaganda ploy." Venezuela, an OPEC member, has led a drive among oil-producing nations to boost production to make up for the shortfall caused by the loss of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil from the world market. But according to the State Department, Cuba, which faces an oil deficit because of reduced Soviet deliveries, has received a shipment of Iraqi petroleum since U.N. sanctions were imposed five weeks ago. And Romania, it said, expects to receive oil indirectly from Iraq. 