The Reagan administration moved to deal with the worsening drought, and a top trade official said that farm export subsidies may have to be curbed. President Reagan appointed an interagency group to deal with the drought and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng authorized farmers in drought parched counties in 13 states to harvest hay on idled crop land in the government's Conservation Reserve Program. At a news briefing, Special Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter warned that the administration may have to curb its so-called export enhancement program if the drought becomes even worse. Before the drought began damaging crops this month, the year was shaping up as one of the best in the decade for rural industries that depend on farmers. Hefty government subsidies on last year's strong harvests put a record amount of cash into farmers pockets. In April, the price of good-quality Iowa farm land was one-third higher than it was a year earlier. Tractor sales by farm equipment dealers were up 12.8% during the first five months of the year. Now, with farmers in many Midwest states expecting smaller harvests this year, these businesses are seeing their new-found trade evaporating. Everybody is watching the dollars they have, says Allen Olson, a vice president of the National Bank of Harvey, N.D., where the drought has already halved the potential yield of the local wheat crop. Few in farming expect the drought to trigger an agricultural recession, although more farmers could go bankrupt because of it. If farmers are strapped for cash this year, the effects would ripple throughout the farm economy. J.I. Case the farm implement-making unit of Tenneco Inc., is considering cutting production schedules if the drought continues through July. It's already getting harder to sell farmers tractors because of the drought, says James K. Ashford, Case president and chief executive officer. He said that if the drought continues, industrywide tractor sales could turn flat next year instead of climbing the 5% to 6% that was originally forecast for 1989. Before the drought we expected a very solid year for farm lenders, says Mark Drabenstott, an economist at the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank. One of the biggest problems for farm banks has been that their number of loans, a major source of bank income, has shriveled as farmers paid off their debts with last year's profits. The drought is going to hurt us because it hurts the cattle market, says Lance Shenold, a vice president of Anadarko Bank &amp; Trust Co. The land boom is wilting. Because of the drought, Iowa realtors expect land prices to rise somewhat less than the 5% to 10% they had been expecting. He is hoping that drought damage and rising crop prices will fan inflationary fears so high that land again will be a hot commodity. The drought is also fanning wildly different predictions of how the farm economy will turn next year. Paul Prentice of Farm Sector Economics Associates, a forecasting concern, thinks the drought could so deplete U.S. stockpiles that the Agriculture Department would drop much of its farm crisis-era planting restrictions. The decision by Mr. Lyng, the secretary of agriculture, to allow hay-mowing for 30 days on Conservation Reserve Program land came as farmers and ranchers in North Dakota, Minnesota and other states continued to sell off livestock in response to shortages of hay and other forage crops. 