May 16 _ First photo of Anderson in captivity released. 8 _ In an open letter, Anderson and three other American captives held by Islamic Jihad call on Reagan to "have mercy" and negotiate with kidnappers. June 7 _ Anderson's 46-year-old brother, Glenn Richard Jr., dies of cancer four days after making a videotape from his bed appealing to Terry's captors. 3 _ In a videotaped appeal, Anderson and David Jacobsen call on the Reagan administration to work as hard for their release as it did to secure the release of journalist Nicholas Daniloff in Moscow. 31 _ Beirut TV stations broadcast videotape showing Anderson's 16-month-old daughter, whom he has never seen. 15 _ Islamic Jihad releases new picture of Anderson. 28 _ Fourth picture of Anderson sent by captors to Western news agency in Beirut. 16 _ Islamic Jihad distributes another picture of Anderson. June 7 _ Anderson's daughter is shown on Lebanese television on her second birthday saying, "Our hearts are broken. 2 _ Sixth photo of Anderson released by Islamic Jihad. 21 _ Islamic Jihad releases another photo of Anderson. 26 _ Jacobsen says he learned from sources in the U.S. government and the Middle East that Anderson is being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day. 24 _ Islamic Jihad release a videotape of Anderson. 1988 March 16 _ Anderson begins his fourth year in captivity. April 10 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by a photo of Anderson, that it will kill its captives if any attempt is made to storm a Kuwaiti jetliner hijacked by Shiite extremists. May 4 _ Islamic Jihad freed three French hostages. May 9 _ Release French hostage Marcel Fontaine, also held by Islamic Jihad, says Anderson's greatest fear is that the Americans will launch a commando raid to free him, an action he believes would mean his certain death. 18 _ Islamic Jihad issues a photo of Anderson with a statement saying he and another U.S, hostage will not be freed soon, squelching speculation they would be released following the gulf war cease-fire. 21 _ Islamic Jihad threatens to "punish" its captives in retaliation for Israeli air raids in south Lebanon. 23 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by a photo of Anderson, that its American hostages will a price that "will reflect adversely" on them if the group's demands are not met. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S. hostage. 27 _ Anderson is 41, his fourth birthday in captivity. Islamic Jihad issues a photo of him to authenticate a statement again denying any connection with the women held in Milan. 31 _ Islamic Jihad issues a videotape of Anderson to mark his 41st birthday. 