The Second Amendment, in its language and its history, makes plain that the need for a well-regulated militia is a sufficient condition for the right to keep and bear arms. Yet Mr. Goldwin treats it as a necessary condition, which enables him to conclude that Congress could deny an individual the right to own a gun if he did not join the National Guard. The right of the people to serve in the militia. Yet Mr. Goldwin believes the amendment means, as he later says, that the right to bear arms meant the right to serve in the militia. Roger Pilon Senior Fellow and Director Center for Constitutional Studies CATO Institute Washington --- The militia is not the National Guard but rather the people of the original states. In Ohio, we have an Ohio militia that is not a part of the National Guard. In my personal celebration of this 200-year-old document, I have pledged the following: I will give up my freedom of speech when they cut out my tongue; I will give up my right to worship when they have slain my God and myself; I will assemble with the people of my choice even when they are imprisoned, and I will give up my rifle when they pry my cold dead fingers from around it. Samuel R. Bush III Cincinnati --- Let those who want guns join the National Guard, says Mr. Goldwin. I ask who are the militia? he said, and then answered his own question with the words: They consist now of the whole people (emphasis added). Further, a 1903 U.S. law defined the militia as not only the National Guard, but all able-bodied males between 18 and 45. What I resent is Mr. Goldwin's agenda, which is removal of all guns from American citizens through the implementation of total regulations; a direct violation of the Second Amendment through nefarious means. Edward F. Menninger Sterling Heights, Mich. --- Mr. Goldwin suggests gun control via enlistment in the National Guard. Updating the right to bear arms from 1791 to 1991, when I report for service I'll bring, as required, a few items consistent with the current infantryman's inventory: a Barett Light.50 semiautomatic sniper rifle, so I can reach out and touch people half a mile away; a Squad Automatic Weapon firing 5.56mm rounds at the rate of a whole lot per second out of 30-round clips or hundred-round belts; a 40mm grenade launcher... but you get the idea. 