Last February, Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc.'s 700-foot Celebration, registered as a Liberian ship, cut a Cuban freighter in half in a collision off Cuba, killing three Cuban sailors. In March 1988, an engine fire broke out on SeaEscape's Bahamian cruise ship, the Scandinavian Star, as it headed to St. Petersburg, Fla., from Cozumel, Mexico. In a voluminous report issued yesterday, the National Transportation Safety Board said these and other incidents carry a clear warning: Many foreign-flag cruise ships that sail from U.S. ports have serious safety problems and the potential for a catastrophic accident is significant. Foreign-registered vessels make up the vast majority of cruise ships sailing from U.S. ports and catering to Americans. Diana Orban, a spokeswoman for Cruise Lines International Association, a New York-based group that has 35 members, notes that only two people have been killed on cruise ships serving U.S. ports since 1970. (Many cruise ships now carry fewer than 1,000 people.) Ships operating from U.S. ports carried about five million passengers last year, and in anticipation of continued growth, 20 cruise ships are under construction around the world. But the overriding concern, the board said, is that foreign cruise ships are subject to rules that are less stringent and vigorously enforced than those imposed on U.S. flag vessels. Many Americans hoping for a bon voyage wrongly assume that ships sailing from U.S. ports operate under the supervision of the U.S. government. But almost all cruise ships operating out of the continental U.S. sail under foreign flags, and the U.S. Coast Guard conducts only cursory inspections of foreign vessels. At least 80 foreign cruise ships operate out of U.S. ports, mostly from southern Florida. There are only three U.S. flag cruise ships and they operate in the Hawaiian Islands. Fire is considered the most deadly threat for cruise ships. The board said there have been at least nine fires on foreign-flag cruise ships in recent years, several of them serious. In July 1986, an acetylene-fueled fire erupted in an engine store room on the Panamanian cruise ship Emerald Seas as it was approaching the Berry Islands in the Bahamas. Despite its strongly worded report, the NTSB knows it could be years before the safety standards for cruise ships are upgraded. 