A Long Beach-bound Exxon oil tanker ran aground on a reef Friday and spilled an estimated 8.4 million gallons of crude oil into Alaska's Prince William Sound, a pristine Pacific waterway heavily used by kayakers, fishermen and tourists. It was the largest Alaskan oil spill ever. Leak a Mere Trickle A representative of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said the tanker had been spilling oil at a rate of 10,000 barrels an hour but the Coast Guard said the leak had become a mere trickle by 2:30 p.m., Alaska time. U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer John Gonzales said in a telephone interview from Valdez that the spill was staying in the mid-channel and did not seem to be moving toward the shore. But environmentalists feared that if the oil reached the shore, marine birds would be threatened. He said three planes from British Columbia, California and England had been dispatched to the scene for aerial spraying to dilute the oil. Another Exxon tanker was attempting to pump the oil out of the crippled vessel, and two Coast Guard investigators were on board the Valdez, he said. Jon Nelson, a deputy regional director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in Anchorage, said the reef ripped a 150-foot gash in the vessel, which was carrying 1.2 million barrels of oil, and there was fear that the tanker could break apart further. There (was) no oil (cleanup equipment) out there and it's been 14 hours since it happened. The immediate response to the spill was handled by crews from the terminal at Valdez. Floating Oil Booms Gonzales, the Coast Guard spokesman, said the terminal has cleanup equipment on site for minor spills. He said employees of the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co., which operates the trans-Alaska oil pipeline for a consortium of oil companies, were getting floating oil booms in place by late afternoon. The spill is expected to add fuel to a campaign by environmentalists to prevent further oil development in Alaska, particularly in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Valdez City Manager Doug Griffen told the Associated Press that the 800-mile trans-Alaska pipeline, which carries oil from Prudhoe Bay to Valdez and the marine terminal, has a good environmental record. Steve Cowper arrived in Valdez on Friday to evaluate the spill. Cowper said that conventional responses, such as booms, probably would not work because the spill is so large. You probably couldn't do it (contain the spill) with all the equipment available in North America. We've been able to brag for a long time that there's never been a major oil spill in Valdez Harbor. 