Mother Nature conspired against this struggling marathon Sunday, serving up balmy, windy weather and wilting both the men's and women's fields. Among the men, Paul Davies-Hale of England proved the most patient, winning in a rather pedestrian 2 hours 11 minutes 25 seconds, in his first marathon ever. It was the slowest winning time in this race since 1982. The race conditions were simply more bad luck for the 12th running of Chicago's marathon, which has been fighting for respectability since losing its sponsor in 1986 and staging no race in 1987. After a week of summer-like weather, race organizers hoped to be salvaged by a good race; to have, if not impressive times on this flat and fast course, at least a memorable race. A pack of five men took off fast, maintaining a 2:09 pace at nine miles. Davies-Hale caught the second pack at 13 miles and met up with pre-race favorite Steve Binns, who lives 30 miles from Davies-Hale in England's West Midlands. At 22 miles, Davies-Hale was in the lead and in control, running smoothly and not appearing to labor under the bright sun. Following him, and likewise picking off the fading runners in the first pack, were Ravil Kashapov of the Soviet Union, who was second in 2:13:19, and David Long, also from the British Midlands, who was third in 2:13:37. In the women's race, Weidenbach had not been the favorite and she agreed with that handicapping. She took off in Sunday's race with authority and ran with a 20-30-second cushion for 15 miles. At 18 miles, Weidenbach came up on O'Brien, her New Balance teammate. It was the same spot, the corner of Wells and North Avenue, that Weidenbach had taken the lead in last year's race. Given the heat, the humidity and the wind, Weidenbach's time might have been as much as two minutes faster. Davies-Hale may have shown a liking for running in heat when he won the Boulder Bolder that year in terrific heat. Still, Davies-Hale is unsure what his future in the marathon is. Marathon Notes Race organizers insist that this race is at a world-class level, especially pointing to the world's richest purse. Scot Hellebuyck won the men's wheelchair race in 1:45:30. Ann Cody Morris won the women's wheelchair race in 1:58:51. 