While more than a thousand runners were treated to an evening of comedy, music and magic at Saturday night's carbo load dinner on Mission Bay, Ernesto Beatriz Martinez of Mexico City was treated to a bumpy 12 1/2-hour bus ride from his hometown to border town Tijuana. Not until early Sunday morning did Beatriz Martinez, 29, cross the U.S./Mexican border to register for, then reach the starting line of, the San Diego International Marathon on East Mission Bay Drive. Two hours, 16 minutes and 12 seconds later, in only his second marathon -- his first was this event last year when he finished eighth -- Beatriz Martinez crossed the finish line 39 seconds ahead of South African Mark Plaatjes, now of Lake Forest, Ill. Marie Rollins, a member of the 1988 Irish Olympic team and now of Glendale, kicked her race up a gear after the 16th mile and won the women's race in 2:39:05, handily defeating hometown favorite Mindy Ireland (2:42:18) of Escondido. It was the first marathon Rollins has completed this year, after dropping out of the New York City Marathon four weeks ago in mile 18 because of stomach cramps. Plaatjes and Ireland took home $2,500 each, and Maurilio Castillo (2:18:06) of Naucalpan, Mexico, the men's third place finisher, and Great Britian's Gillian Horovitz (2:43:20), now of New York City, third in the women's race, received $1,500. Castillo was entered in the accompanying half marathon, but he and Pedro Casillas missed that races' turn at just over the mile mark and mistakenly followed the longer route. There was some question that Castillo hadn't finished the entire race as reporters and photographers on the lead vehicle didn't see him for several miles. But Plaatjes said it was because he and Casillas, who eventually dropped out at mile 18, were so far ahead of the lead pack of Plaatjes, Danny Bustos, Dick LeDoux, Kurtis and Leodigard Martin. Bustos of Las Vegas, N.M., led for the first 14 miles, followed closely by Plaatjes, Beatriz Martinez and LeDoux. But Beatriz Martinez took the lead at 23 miles and Plaatjes couldn't close the gap. Marathon Notes Marie Rollins' time is the fourth best for women in San Diego-area marathon history and breaks Chantal Best's 1988 race record of 2:42:22. 