Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association has filed a $6 billion civil lawsuit accusing Michael Milken and other former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. officials of fraudulently peddling junk bonds in the 1980s. The lawsuit, filed Wednesday by the failing savings and loan, claims that Milken and others manipulated and coerced Columbia and other thrifts into buying billions of dollars worth of the risky high-yield bonds. "Absent such deceit and manipulations it would have been clear that the market for junk bonds was highly illiquid and that junk bonds were unsuitable investments for savings and loan institutions," the suit says. The lawsuit by Columbia, filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles, names Milken, nine other Drexel officials and more than 100 investment partnerships sponsored by the collapsed Wall Street firm. Columbia, based in Beverly Hills, said in the lawsuit that Milken and other Drexel officials manipulated, coerced and deceived the thrift by promising that the market for the bonds would remain active and the thrift would make money. The 176-page lawsuit by Columbia also claims that Milken and other Drexel employees appropriated stock in buyouts for themselves via the investment partnerships that should have gone to junk bond buyers in the deals. The suit accuses Milken and others of manipulating the junk bond market, giving bribes and stock investment opportunities to some thrift executives, misappropriating valuable stock interests in junk bond deals, skimming profits from junk bond trading, and controlling through illegal means a web of thrifts and other investors in junk bonds. The suit says Columbia was "ill-equipped" to make use of relaxed federal laws in the early 1980s that allowed thrifts to invest in corporate securities such as junk bonds. The FDIC and Resolution Trust Corp., which administers the failed thrifts, already have filed a claim for $4.5 billion against Drexel in federal bankruptcy court alleging that fraudulent junk bond dealings caused Columbia heavy losses. 