A police chief plays an essential role in setting the climate in which his department operates. Through the years Mr. Gates has made public statements clearly at odds with the new concept of community policing, in which officers work with citizens to improve neighborhoods and prevent crime. The exchange sounded more like one gang challenging another than a police chief seeking to reduce conflict in the community. Hundreds of gang homicides occur every year in Los Angeles despite sweeps by the city's police. Similarly, Mr. Gates vehemently opposed the Police Corps Program backed by other police chiefs. The Police Corps would send idealistic young people, including minorities, to serve a three -- or four -- year tour of duty after college graduation in return for federal funding of their educations. Mr. Gates opposed the Police Corps because its members would not be professionals. The presence of even one police corps officer witness would have deterred the criminal cops. Many chiefs openly disagreed with Mr. Gates when he opposed the Police Corps Bill in Congress. Last year Los Angeles paid $3 million to 52 residents of an apartment complex ransacked by police. Or was the chief suggesting that the beating was a warning against further run-ins with the police? Public opinion polls in Los Angeles show the majority of people believe police brutality is common, and they disapprove of the way Mr. Gates has done his job. Mr. Gates's military style of policing is at odds with that in the rest of the country, and it's about time police leaders publicly repudiated it. It is hard to see how the Los Angeles Police Department can regain credibility unless Daryl Gates's leave becomes permanent. But the videotape of the LAPD brutality affects the credibility of all police officers. It has cast a cloud over policing that won't be lifted until police chiefs drop their own code of silence and speak out against one of their own's peculiar philosophy of policing. --- Mr. McNamara is the police chief in San Jose. 