A poor ventilation system that does little more than recycle old, stale air from one end of the building to another.; Millions of American office workers are getting more than they bargained for when they inhale in a building that has no fresh air. The evidence comes from various studies of tuberculosis, measles and flu that spread in a manner that can only be explained by poor air ventilation.; Modern office buildings are tight, says Jon Rosenberg, public health officer in California's occupational health program. If it has a good ventilation system... you don't necessarily have to have a sick building, Rosenberg says.; But, alas, many modern ventilation systems recirculate indoor air with little or no fresh air. Very bad ventilation makes the system worse. ; In a study published in the August issue of the American Review of Respiratory Diseases, Nardell and colleagues at Harvard Medical School found that an outbreak of tuberculosis documented in one unidentified government building could have been cut in half had the ventilation been better.; The study found that 40 percent of the building's workers -- or 27 of 47 -- were infected with tuberculosis from one 30-year-old sick employee. Respiratory infection experts say that flu viruses and measles are easier to spread than TB.; This particular study deals only with TB, says Dr. Jonathan Samet, a respiratory-disease expert at the University of New Mexico, but the observations may apply to other organisms, such as the respiratory viruses that cause flu. ; Building workers had complained for years about poor air quality.; The building's ventilation system permitted circulation of some outdoor air -- 15 cubic feet per minute -- a low level commonly found in buildings since the 1930s. Even lower levels of outdoor air ventilation, below 10 cfm, have become common since 1973, the post-oil embargo era.; In the study, Nardell estimated that if outdoor air ventilation in the government building had been doubled -- to about 35 cubic feet per minute, a level that Massachusetts recommends for buildings where smoking is permitted -- only half as many workers would have been infected with tuberculosis.; Other studies have documented:; (check) Flu spreads quickly on airplanes where ventilation systems consist entirely of recirculated air.; (check) Measles are transmitted by infectious air in a pediatrician's waiting room.; (check) Tuberculosis can spread in homeless shelters, prisons and hospitals where ventilation is poor.; Flu spreads much more easily than TB. Flu and colds will probably never be eliminated from the workplace entirely, and it may not make sense to install a new ventilation system unless the air quality is very low.; In his tuberculosis study, he found that the biggest benefit comes from improving the worst ventilation systems that allow very little fresh air. 