Michael Milken may be gone from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., but his deal-making days aren't done. Milken's new company, International Capital Access Group, is open for business. Despite the racketeering and securities fraud indictment hanging over him and his forced resignation from Drexel in June, Milken hasn't retreated to the sidelines. When Drexel's former junk bond chief announced plans for the firm, he said it would help members of minority groups and unions raise the capital to own companies. But the new firm is also gearing up for a considerable amount of potentially more profitable business. Since leaving Drexel, Milken has had talks with many of his old firm's clients, according to a senior Drexel executive. And in a long interview in ICAG's offices, Milken confirmed that a significant part of ICAG's business will be with ordinary companies. And it is working on finding new capital for successful companies and refinancing firms that are in trouble. In exchange for Milken's brainpower and contacts in arranging refinancing, ICAG expects to receive an ownership stake in most of the companies that it helps. What we're doing here is pretty much what we were doing before (at Drexel), in the sense that his focus is on finding ways for companies to raise capital, Milken says, although he no longer trades or underwrites securities. He refuses to discuss ICAG's fees or even confirm that he expects the company to be profitable. At Drexel, Milken essentially created the market for high-yield, high-risk junk bonds, and he revolutionized the way that capital was raised for medium-sized U.S. companies. In the short time since ICAG was formed, it already has purchased $2.5 million worth of barges and other equipment to lease to Unimar International Inc., a Seattle-based shipbuilder and tugboat company that was bought out by its unionized employees with Drexel's help in 1987. Milken says ICAG plans to do this for other employee-owned companies as well, since many of them have trouble raising the money to buy equipment outright. Milken says that helping unions and members of minority groups, and devising ways to help indebted countries, such as Mexico, will make up more than half of ICAG's business. In addition to these areas, Milken already is doing a considerable amount of mainstream business. He is working on bailing out Weintraub Entertainment Group, a Los Angeles company that was straining under its junk bond debt after a string of unsuccessful movies. Milken won't comment on the terms on which ICAG is helping these companies, but one deal that fell through suggests that, while his aim may be to help others, he isn't neglecting his own interests. Such activities were a main part of Milken's activities at Drexel. In an off-the-record interview, the chief executive of a publicly traded company who was a client of Milken's at Drexel and praises Milken effusively said that he couldn't afford to have any formal business relationship with ICAG. He said the commercial banks with which his company does business have indicated that they might stop lending to him if he does. Only the firm's name, not Milken's, is on the door. Among the top staff members, whom Milken calls principals, are Steven Fink, a former official at Pacific Asset Holdings (a partnership in which Milken holds an interest), Lorraine Spurge, formerly one of his top assistants at Drexel, and Randolph Read, former president of a merchant banking concern. Officials at the new firm say they are aren't making overtures to lure Drexel employees to ICAG. But one clue to the amount of money that Milken personally is committing to the firm is how much he says ICAG is willing to invest in an individual transaction. Milken draws a sharp distinction between his goals and those of Bruce Wasserstein and Joseph R. Perella, formerly of First Boston Corp., who, like Milken, left a big Wall Street firm to set up shop on their own. Although Milken is credited with inventing the use of junk bonds to back hostile corporate raids, he maintains that hostile transactions have never been a major focus of mine. By helping companies, Milken means suggesting ways that they could improve their basic business, working out creative means of raising capital or recapitalizing to reduce interest costs, and using his vast network of contacts to put companies in touch with potential investors. After a speech he made in September, Milken was widely quoted as suggesting that companies should now attempt to reduce their level of high-yield debt. Some analysts interpreted this as a major reversal, since Milken's later years at Drexel were largely spent promoting leveraged buyouts financed with huge chunks of junk-bond debt. But Milken maintains that he is simply doing what he has always done, advising companies to profit from market conditions. Milken says his firm expects to help salvage some of the large companies that have been in the news in the last couple of months because of severe difficulties in meeting the payments on their junk debt. When Drexel settled a massive SEC lawsuit, the firm agreed not to do business directly or indirectly with Milken. It's not clear, for example, whether legal problems would arise if a company hired Drexel to underwrite securities according to a recapitalization plan drawn up by Milken. Oscar U. Mutz, president and chief executive of Forum Group, an Indianapolis developer of retirement communities that is a Drexel customer, says: I don't ask Drexel's permission to go see Morgan Stanley (another Wall Street investment bank), and I don't ask Drexel's permission to go see Michael Milken or anybody else. Steven Anreder, Drexel's spokesman, says the firm hasn't lost any clients to ICAG. Milken, who was one of the most feared competitors on Wall Street when he was at Drexel, now frequently is funneling to other firms the trading and underwriting business that he can no longer do himself. Milken himself takes pains to downplay his former role as competitor, saying that as a former buyer and seller of securities, he always had to maintain good relationships with other firms. 