Legal experts differed sharply in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee over what impact Judge Robert Bork's free-market approach to antitrust law would have on competition and consumers. A wide array of anti-competitive practices which have been specifically outlawed by statute or (by) settled Supreme Court precedent would be rendered lawful if Judge Bork's antitrust views held sway, New York Attorney General Robert Abrams warned yesterday, as the committee concluded 12 days of hearings on the Supreme Court nomination. But Donald Baker, a Washington lawyer and former chief of the Justice Department's Antitrust Division, said in a statement that Judge Bork is in the mainstream of antitrust, which means his antitrust thinking.... is widely used by antitrust practitioners, antitrust courts and even antitrust professors. Speaking to representatives of groups supporting the nomination, he portrayed Judge Bork's opponents as liberal special interest groups, asserted that Judge Bork would be tough on criminals, and said there has been a deliberate campaign of disinformation and distortion waged against the nominee. Robert Packwood of Oregon, the only Republican senator to publicly oppose the nomination so far, said he knows of between three and five other Republicans who may oppose Judge Bork. The 60-year-old Judge Bork, a federal appeals court judge, is a recognized expert in antitrust law. In yesterday's testimony, Robert Pitofsky, dean of Georgetown University Law School and a former Federal Trade Commission member, said Judge Bork advocates an antitrust program more conservative than proposed by almost anyone else. He said Judge Bork favors making legal practically all price and other restrictive agreements between manufacturers and distributors, and that his approach to mergers between competitors would make the Reagan administration's lenient policy seem recklessly restrictive. Mr. Kauper said there isn't any reason to assume Judge Bork would overrule antitrust precedents or federal laws and that Judge Bork advocates an antitrust approach designed to promote consumer welfare. Mr. Reagan maintained, as the White House has for months, that Judge Bork's philosophy is in the mainstream of contemporary thought. White House officials think the view of Judge Bork as a champion of crime fighters is politically appealing but believe it hasn't gotten enough attention during the Senate's confirmation hearings. President Reagan is scheduled to deliver another pitch for Judge Bork today when he speaks at the swearing-in of William Sessions as the new chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 