Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes, but it is most prevalent among minorities, especially Native Americans, blacks and Hispanics. Hispanics are three times as likely to develop diabetes as the general population, and 40 percent of the 700,000 victims in Texas are Mexican-American. San Antonio, the nation's ninth largest city, with a population that is 50 percent Hispanic, is becoming the base for diabetes studies. San Antonio's Hispanic makeup led Dr. Ralph DeFronzo to abandon his prestigious position as a Yale University diabetes researcher and persuade his four-member team to relocate to the University of Texas Health Science Center. An epidemiologist at the center, Dr. Michael Stern, has devoted 10 years to studying Hispanic diabetes and led the grassroots study of Type II diabetes. In obese diabetics, the body has too much insulin because it is burning more fats than sugars. Type I diabetes usually develops among adolescents and requires that they have daily injections of insulin. "We don't know why, when they get diabetes, they have a more severe form of the disease _ whether it's a biological difference or is it that they are not getting as good medical care. "Also, Mexican-Americans tend to have more body fat in their upper torso and we can see that as related to diabetes." Researchers believe that poor Hispanics' diets of cheap, processed foods, lack of exercise and infrequent medical attention _ either due to poverty or a cultural bias against doctors _ increases their risk of acquiring diabetes. The study is in its follow-up stage, to see if diagnosed diabetes patients have changed their lifestyle and have sought medical care. DeFronzo, who in 1988 was chosen the top diabetes investigator by Canadian and Japanese diabetes associations, says his unit at the Health Science Center will try to use many of Stern's patients for research. "The problem with Type II diabetics is not that they don't make enough insulin; they don't respond to the insulin," DeFronzo said. Educating elementary-school-age children about healthy diets would help reduce the number of diabetes cases, DeFronzo said. 