The Trans-Antarctica Expedition Mr. Steger writes about in Crossing Antarctica (Knopf, 304 pages, $25) was born of the ambitions of Mr. Steger and Jean-Louis Etienne, who met in 1986 in the middle of separate arctic journeys. Mr. Steger was leading the first confirmed unsupported dog-sled expedition to the North Pole and Dr. Etienne was making the first solo ski there. Steger and Etienne decided to ski and dog-sled across the continent by the longest possible route, a trek that took them from July 27 until March 3. The success of Trans-Antarctica owed a lot to the pride, resilience, determination and widely different skills and personalities of the men involved: Geoff Somers, stubborn, taciturn and wryly humorous, an expert dog-sled driver and veteran of the British Antarctic Survey; Victor Boyarsky, a boisterous, mercurial, Soviet glaciologist; Keizo Funatsu, a quiet, conscientious Japanese with spiritual reserves, devoted to his dogs; and Qin Dahe, a dedicated Chinese scientist. When I traveled with these men and their dog teams for three days in the Minnesota wilderness in February 1989, it was Mr. Qin's first experience with skis, sled dogs or communicating at length in the English language. None of that bothered Mr. Steger, who was more interested in Mr. Qin's fierce determination to share camp chores and pull his weight in subzero cold. Mr. Steger is also a keen judge of dogs, who share equally in the credit for Trans-Antarctica. Because their lives depended on the dogs, the men knew them all intimately, their strengths and foibles. Men and dogs stumbled forward in snowy whiteouts, fell into and rescued one another from crevasses. Bone-chilling head winds froze painful cracks in their fingers and faces, sapping the strength of men and dogs. Within 16 miles of the end, Mr. Funatsu stepped out in a storm to tend his dog team and couldn't find his way back. As polar literature, Mr. Steger's account, written with Jon Bowermaster, cannot equal the technical fascination of Amundsen's The South Pole. 