Coast Guard Commandant Paul A. Yost on Tuesday attacked Exxon's plan to clean up the Alaskan oil spill. Consumers, politicians and environmentalists expressed their anger in a one-day "Boycott Exxon" campaign. Yost, the top federal official tracking the environmental disaster, said Exxon's plan was poorly drafted and lacking in specifics. In Washington, consumer activist Ralph Nader said Exxon "should not be allowed to forget" the spill and that a boycott would send the oil giant a message. He and others blasted Exxon for failing to be prepared for the spill and not rapidly responding to the accident that fouled hundreds of miles of Alaska's coast. "We are beginning the war of words and actions against any oil company that doesn't understand its responsibility to protect the environment," Massachusetts state Sen. The oil company's cleanup strategy must gain Yost's approval before being put into effect. However, he said the cleanup, to be paid for by the oil industry, could add $100 million to $500 million to Alaska's economy, which he said is more than the effect of the fishing industry. Exxon's 60-page, two-part revised strategy to cleanse some 364 miles of Alaska's coastline of the oil spilled March 24 by the tanker Exxon Valdez was released Monday. The tanker struck a reef 25 miles from Valdez, spilling more than 10 million gallons of crude oil into Prince William Sound. They're one big blob of oil," said Ray Bane, superintendent of Katmai National Park, about 275 miles southwest of Valdez. State and federal officials said the focus of the cleanup is moving southwest, following the drifting oil along the Alaska Peninsula through the Shelikof Strait east of Kodiak Island. Oil has tainted the coast at least as far as Chignik, 525 miles southwest of Valdez. Exxon's plan also notes that 191 miles of coastline it describes as "lightly oiled" may be left untouched to be cleansed naturally by wind and water. Lamoreaux said, "When we talk about 'light oiling,' it doesn't mean it won't have a devastating effect on wildlife." James Exon and Bob Kerrey, both Nebraska Democrats, called on U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to investigate potential price gouging by the oil industry. 