It's unlikely, all agree, that any of the eight crew members to be selected later this year from among 14 candidates in this $30 million private experiment, will go bonkers. "They're so highly motivated in the first place, I would not be surprised to see the whole thing go through without a hitch, personnel-wise," said Robert B. Bechtel, an environmental psychologist at the University of Arizona. "My guess would be that they would probably have somewhat fewer problems than you would normally encounter in the classical isolation experience," said Mary Connors, a psychologist and division staff member at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center near Sunnyvale, Calif., who until recently was acting chief of its Crew Research and Space Human Factors Branch. Experiments in long-term situations where small groups of people live in harsh climatic or environmental extremes, such as the in Antarctica or underwater, usually are viewed in terms of "isolation, confinement, deprivation and risk," Connors said. But crew members will be allowed to leave through air locks if health or extreme family emergencies necessitate, eliminating the sense of risk, she said. Walford and Biosphere spokeswoman Kathleen Dyhr, also hoping to make the crew, said each candidate has worked on the project for at least three years. Rather, such factors as ability to work together, problem-solving skills, willingness to accept other views and professionalism are keys, and "by selecting for some of those factors you can relieve a lot of interpersonal tensions." Connors and Bechtel said the strong job focus, cross-work training and the fact that the potential crew members have worked and spent significant time together all are highly advantageous. Creativity, spontaneity, withdrawal, unexpected irritability, eating patterns and general health will be watched, but the best sensors likely will be the crew members themselves. "Mine has always been that it's unlikely, because I think people tend to act as crews when they get in an experience that is prolonged," Connors said. "Let's just put it this way," Ms. Dyhr said, "there's nothing really that a corporation can do about what their employees do after 5 o'clock. "Given the fact that various members of the clergy have shown themselves to be innovative and agreeable to doing marriages under very unusual circumstances, I'm sure that they could find a way to do it," Ms. Dyhr said. The Biosphere's purpose is "not to test interpersonal relations," but to test "whether they can reproduce the Earth's atmosphere by a mixture of plants, animals and bacteria," Bechtel said. He and Connors also said most studies of crews, including mixed-sex groups in environments far harsher and smaller than the biospherians are likely to encounter, have shown them to be highly motivated, energetic and willing to put up with almost anything for the sake of the project and the team's success. Bechtel said the public has a misconception that putting eight people together will mean "all kinds of interesting things can happen." 