Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudi border, today sought peace on another front by promising to withdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers captured during the Iran-Iraq war. President Bush on Tuesday said the United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's Red Sea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route. The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at fever pace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force camped out in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust by Iraq. The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran, which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations, is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regular news briefing today. _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraq and Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-rich sultanate. ABC quoted an Iraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans in Iraq are "restrictees" who will stay there until the crisis ends. _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children and invalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands of foreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all 880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road route through Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border. _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwait appear to be deteriorating. Banks remained closed. _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraq would retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel members if they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blocked supplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now "annexed," Iraq has control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. Bush then sent U.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massed nearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves. Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oil outlets through those countries, but according to Jordanian officials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating. King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush from Iraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exports of oil and imports of food and military supplies. Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricade now in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba "if it is a hole through which commerce flows" in and out of Iraq. In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of "Desert Shield," the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqi soldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil and money. Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million. 