Exxon officials Monday released a revised plan for cleansing 364 miles of Alaskan coastline fouled by the nation's largest oil spill, but said their proposal requires a suspension of local environmental laws. The plan makes no provisions for continuing the cleanup beyond mid-September, and notes that 191 miles of lightly oiled coastline may not be cleaned mechanically at all, but be allowed to be washed naturally by the environment. Since March 24, when an Exxon tanker struck a reef outside Valdez and poured more than 10 million gallons of North Slope crude into Prince William Sound, Exxon has financed cleanup crews fighting the spreading sludge. The oil company's strategy, which was submitted to state and federal authorities only hours before a deadline expired, divides Alaska's oil-tainted shores into four categories _ from the most heavily polluted to those that are "only lightly oiled." 15. Exxon's plan calls for the recovered waste to be strained for usable oil that can be refined, and said the oil-laced wastewater could be treated at the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co.'s disposal plant in Valdez. Meanwhile, tar and sludge from the Valdez spill fouled the beaches of Alaska's wild Katmai National Park, drenching hundreds of sea otters and birds and threatening the huge brown bears prowling the refuge. The damage stretches along 260 miles of rocky, rugged coastline southwestward from Cape Douglas some 500 miles from Valdez, park superintendent Ray Bane said Monday. The oil has had an impact on virtually the entire coastline of the park," Bane said. Bane said an aerial survey showed an amorphous oil patch 10 miles wide and more than 20 miles long in the Shelikof Strait, which is located along the migration route used by whales. The oil industry blames the spill and crude oil prices that have risen $7 a barrel since January for higher prices at the gas pumps. Exxon also received sharp criticism from the federal government, which accused the company of "foot-dragging" in the construction of a second facility in Seward to aid in the cleanup of sea otters fouled by the oil. 