However, Washington's proposals, promised by Mr Alexander Watson, assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, are likely to disappoint Caribbean basin governments which have been seeking a comprehensive package to allow free access to the US and Canadian markets. Claiming that a more competitive Mexico, with free access to the US and Canada, will capture markets which Caribbean basin countries have developed under current trade agreements, the region has asked for 'parity' with Mexico in exporting to Nafta signatories. Mr Clinton and his Mexican counterpart, Mr Carlos Salinas, assured the Caribbean basin countries that they would not be adversely affected by the implementation of Nafta, and that efforts would be made to protect their markets in the US and Canada. What the Caribbean basin countries want is quick action by legislators in Washington, and then in Ottawa and Mexico City, to ratify proposals by some US congressmen to put all the region's exports to the US and Canada on a par with Mexico's. The parity proposals are aimed at giving Caribbean basin countries an open door to the Nafta market for three years. 'President Clinton has said his administration will ensure that the benefits of Nafta are felt by the Caribbean countries,' said Mr Manuel Esquivel, prime minister of Belize. While willing to give parity to a few products, the US wanted the Caribbean basin countries to meet new conditions, including bilateral investment treaties, intellectual property rights agreements, workers' rights and environmental legislation, democracy, good governance and accountability, Mr Carrington said. In presenting their case for parity, Caribbean leaders have argued that the US and Canada will also be the losers if there is extensive economic dislocation in the region caused by a loss of markets to Mexico. 'In the past 10 years US exports to the Caribbean basin have doubled, making the region the tenth largest market for US exporters. Without improved access to the US and Canadian markets to counter Mexico's benefits under Nafta, the Caribbean basin countries will have to continue depending on their current trade preference agreements with the US and Canada. 