U.S. military helicopters on Sunday located the wreckage of a plane that crashed last Monday with Texas congressman Mickey Leland and 15 others aboard. The crash site is about 75 miles east of the Fugnido refugee camp that Leland was flying to visit when the plane vanished in heavy weather last Monday. Gary L. Ackerman (D-N.Y.), a colleague of Leland's who has accompanied search crews for the last two days and was aboard the helicopter that first spotted the wreckage Sunday. Ivan Tillen, a New York businessman and friend of Leland's; Robert Woods, a political and economic officer at the American Embassy in Addis Ababa; Gladys Gilbert, a special projects officer for the mission of the U.S. Agency for International Development attached to the embassy; Thomas Worrick, the acting AID representative in Ethiopia, and Worrick's wife, Roberta. 7 Ethiopians Killed Also on board were Debebe Agonofer, an Ethiopian agricultural economist with the AID mission, and six other Ethiopians, including the plane's crew of three. Dellums spoke of his staff aide who lost her life in the crash as a close personal friend for over a decade and said that everyone on the plane shared a common commitment to helping the poor, the starving and the dispossessed in that war-torn, drought-stricken land. Discovery of the crash site ended what had been one of the most extensive American search and rescue operations ever conducted in a Third World country. By Sunday, 18 aircraft, including four American helicopters, two American C-130 airplanes and 12 Ethiopian aircraft, were involved in the search. Gilk said that the crash site, in a mountainous and heavily wooded region, is so remote and inaccessible that the nearest landing site for helicopters is half a mile away, a distance that he said could take as much as three hours to cover on foot. Record arrived in Addis Ababa about 10 minutes after the first reports were received of the sighting of the crash site. Discovery of the crash site came at about 1:15 p.m. local time Sunday. There, the crew came upon a Roman Catholic missionary who told them that he had heard reports from local villagers that a plane had been heard nearby last week. Presently, the crew found an Ethiopian surveyor who said he could guide them to an area near where the plane had been heard. The surveyor was taken aboard, crew members said, but on their way toward their destination they spotted the crash site. 'Mostly Rocks and Brush' Crew members described the site as mostly rocks and brush and indicated that the pilot of Leland's plane may have been trying to escape bad weather on Monday by following the pathway of a river flowing through a valley. Alan Wheat (D-Mo.), who with Ackerman had been flying with search crews for the last two days, said he telephoned House Speaker Thomas S. Foley (D-Wash.) from Addis Ababa soon after the discovery was made. The crash site was described by U.S. authorities as being about 20 nautical miles due east of the town of Gambela and 230 nautical miles west-southwest of Addis Ababa. Area Had Been Covered The area of the site had apparently been searched within the first two days after the crash by American aircraft using electronic devices in an attempt to detect an emergency signal from the downed craft. However, Sunday was the first day that helicopters flew over the area to make visual inspections. Wheat, who was among those who had pressed Defense Department officials for the deployment of more aircraft in the search, said after the discovery Sunday: We could have brought every plane in the world that we have, and it would not have made a difference. President Bush, in his Sunday statement, said: I have known, admired and worked with Mickey Leland for many years. Bush offered U.S. help to the Ethiopian government for its investigation into the crash of the plane. 