On the day the 25-cent-an-hour minimum wage became the law of the land nearly 50 years ago, a wave of pecan-shelling and tobacco-stemming factories closed throughout the South and industries warned of economic mayhem. Augustus Hawkins (D., Calif.), who head the Senate and House Labor committees, are expected to introduce legislation to increase the minimum wage from its current rate of $3.35 an hour to about $4.65 hourly over three years, with future automatic annual adjustments. If the wage is boosted, warns Anne Papa, a National Restaurant Association official, employers will be forced to cut back on their work forces. But pressure is building among Democrats in a Congress they now control to raise the wage, which was last increased six years ago. Hawkins: The cost of living has gone up tremendously since the minimum wage was last raised. What's less certain is the shape the bill will finally take, and whether a veto is inevitable from a president who once said the minimum wage has caused more misery and unemployment than anything else since the Great Depression. Conceived as part of the New Deal, the minimum wage was heralded at its birth as one of the most notable advances in our national effort to improve economic conditions in the United States. Congress last voted in 1977 to increase the wage; the last of four step-ups occurred in January 1981 when it rose 25 cents to $3.35. He asserts that the inflation-adjusted value of the minimum wage is now at the lowest level in 33 years. The minimum wage simply has not kept up with rising living standards and rising median wages, adds Jeff Faux, president of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank. If we want to support the work ethic, we have to give people a living wage, says Mr. Levitan, who directs George Washington University's Center for Social Policy Studies. He and others concede that increases in the minimum wage do result in some job losses. His research shows that income from the minimum wage was enough to raise a family of three out of poverty during most of the 1960s and 1970s. Now, someone working full-time at the minimum wage earns $6,968 a year, or $1,773 less than the 1986 poverty threshold of $8,741 for a family of three. Only a worker living alone can make enough money at the basic wage to lift himself above the poverty line. Employers say they'd have to raise wages for other workers, and costs would inevitably be passed on to the consumer. Nearly 3.5 million hourly workers earn the minimum wage, according to the Labor Department, but it's expected that any increase would also benefit the nearly 1.5 million workers who are paid below the minimum and others who earn slightly above the minimum. It is not the head of the household who is earning minimum wage, he says. The historical goal has been a minimum wage equal to half the average wage for non-supervisory private workers, which is currently $8.88 an hour. Republicans have warned they may counter the push to expand the minimum wage with a long-sought subminimum wage for teens, but an administration official says no decision has yet been made on its position on an increase. 