United Nations Security Council; November 29, 1990;...; War Pros; Here are the major justifications for war that have been advanced by Bush or his supporters:; Counter aggression:; Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait has posed the first crisis of the post-Cold War world. If allowed to corner the world energy market, Saddam could threaten access to oil at reasonable prices.; Iraq's weaponry:; Iraq which has a stockpile of chemical weapons and is developing biological and nuclear weapons, could one day threaten the security of other oil-rich Arab countries and Israel if its arsenal is not destroyed now.; Military readiness:; U.S. forces, which will eventually total some 430,000, will not be able to maintain their readiness indefinitely. But even if war becomes necessary to force Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, it would be better to wage it after the sanctions have weakened the Iraqi army and air force, depriving them of spare parts and supplies.; Oil:; Most of the oil output from Iraq and Kuwait could be saved through tougher fuel conservation measures. Some of Iraq's differences with Kuwait may be legitimate.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; HOW THE WAR MIGHT UNFOLD; PHASE 1 (DAY ONE TO THREE) (includes small graphics); Objective: Destroy the country's air defense systems, air force installations and command centers through bombing raids, cutting off most of the Iraqi troops from Baghdad's central command. Those attacks would be followed immediately by strikes from the Stealth and F-111s from Saudi Arabia, as well as Navy A-6 fighter-bombers from ships in the gulf.; B-52s from Saudi Arabia and the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia would take out the layers of radar, surface-to-air missiles and air defense guns that protect Iraq's major cities and military and industrial Installations.; Air Force F-15s and F-16s from Saudi Arabia and F-14s from ships in the gulf would try to destroy Iraqi combat planes. With Iraq's ground forces stunned, Turkish and Syrian troops amassed on the northern border would invade.; Obstacles: Though most Iraqi air defenses and forces could be eliminated, many of the country's enormous supply of air defense guns would be functional and deadly. Also, much of the U.S. technology, including the Stealth, hasn't been fully battle-tested.;...; PHASE 3 (DAY SEVEN TO 90); Objective: To liberate Kuwait by isolating it and overcoming the Iraqi troops there.; U.S.-led forces would use aircraft such as the A-10 Thunderbolt (Warthogs) and Apache helicopters to smash Iraqi tanks and undermine resistance to ground forces, both in Kuwait and Iraq.; Paratroopers would be dropped behind the Iraqi lines in Kuwait.; Marines would attempt another amphibious amphibious assault on the shore of Kuwait.; Alliance troops on the Saudi-Kuwaiti border would push across it, slowly smashing and pushing aside the fortifications the Iraqis have set up along the frontier.; The alliance forces Would attempt to engage the elite Republican guard forces, which number some 105,000, most of which are stationed near Basra.; Obstacles: The Iraqi troops are war-tested and have the home advantage: Protecting Iraq and what they believe to be an extension of their nation's territory. Handful of medical personnel sent have since returned.; Pakistan: Thirteen thousand troops sent.;...; Mideast (includes map); Egypt: Has sent 29,250 ground troops.; Gulf Cooperation Council (Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait): In all, GCO and other local Arab troops total 150,000.; Saudi Arabia: Has sent 55,000 soldiers and assorted air and ground weaponry.; Syria: Has sent 21,000 ground troops.;...; Other countries; Australia: Two guided-missile frigates and a supply ship.; Canada: Two destroyers and a supply ship; Morocco: Has sent 1,700 ground troops.; Niger: Has sent 480 ground troops.; Senegal: Has sent 500 ground troops.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; THE ECONOMY AND WAR; SHORT WAR SCENARIO; Foreign crude oil (includes graph on prices by quarter for 1990 and 1991); Key assumptions; A quick, positive solution to Kuwait crisis achieved this winter.; Oil prices drop below $20 by late spring. Consumer, business confidence recover, aborting recession after one quarter.; Civilian unemployment (includes graph on unemployment by quarter for 1990 and 1991); Business Impacts; Economy recovers fast from minirecession; real GNP jumps 5 % from mid-1991 to mid-1992.; Big-ticket items, housing lead the charge, spurred by cheaper credit, recovery of confidence.;...; LONG WAR SCENARIO; Foreign crude oil (includes graph on prices by quarter for 1990 and 1991); Key assumptions; War with Iraq is neither short nor cheap.; Damage to gulf oil facilities leaves world short by 2-3 million barrels per day through 1991.; Civilian unemployment (includes graph on unemployment by quarter for 1990 and 1991); Business Impacts; GNP falls 2.3% over four quarters.; Energy crisis adds two percentage points to 1991 consumer price inflation.; Source: DRI/McGraw-Hill; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; GULF CRISIS TIMELINE; AUGUST; 2: Iraq invades Kuwait. President Bush freezes Iraqi and Kuwaiti assets in the United States, bans trade with Iraq and bars Iraqi aircraft and ships from U.S. ports; 3: Arab League condemns invasion.; 6: U.N. Security Council authorizes economic sanctions against Iraq. Bush orders U.S. forces to Saudi Arabia in response to fears of an Iraqi invasion of that country.; 9: U.N. Security Council declares Iraq's annexation of Kuwait null and void. Saddam Hussein seals off Iraq's borders, trapping an estimated 550 Americans in Iraq and 3,000 in Kuwait.; 16: U.S. begins intercepting ships carrying goods to or from Iraq and Kuwait; 18: U.N. Security Council demands that Iraq free all foreigners.; 25: U.N. Security Council authorizes military action to halt maritime trade with Iraq.; 28: Iraq declares Kuwait its 19th province. U.S. expels 36 of 55 personnel from Iraqi Embassy in Washington; SEPTEMBER; 14: U.N. Security Council orders strict controls on humanitarian food aid to Iraq and Kuwait.; 25: U.N Security Council authorizes air embargo of Iraq.; OCTOBER; 1: House votes 380-29 in support of gulf deployment of U.S. troops.; 2: Senate votes 96-3 in favor of deployment.; 30: U.S. forces begin 10-day amphibious training exercise. Boiler pipe on USS Iwo Jima ruptures; 10 sailors killed.; NOVEMBER; 4: Pentagon announces call-up of major reserve combat units.; 8: Two days after fall elections, Bush orders near doubling of U.S. forces in the gulf to 400,000 to give the United States an adequate offensive option. ; 15: Saddam says he wants to negotiate with the United States but is unwilling to leave Kuwait first.; 19: Iraq adds 250,000 troops to the 430,000 already in or near Kuwait.; 29: U.N. Security Council votes 12-2 to authorize all means necessary to remove Iraq from Kuwait if it does not withdraw by Jan. 15. It is the first time since the outset of the Korean War that the United Nations has authorized force against a member nation.; 30: Bush proposes meetings between the United States and Iraq, saying he wants to go the extra mile for peace. ; DECEMBER; 6: Saddam says all hostages may leave.; JANUARY; 3: Bush proposes talks in Geneva between Secretary of State Jim Baker and Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz.; 4: Iraq accepts Bush's proposal for talks between Baker and Aziz.; 8: French officials once again promise peace plan linking Iraqi withdrawal to Arab-Israeli conference.; 9: Baker, Aziz meet, but talks fail to resolve crisis.; 12: Congress votes to approve resolution for use of military force.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; GULF POLLS; Santa Clara County residents on U.S. action in the gulf; 60% Support; 40% Do not support;...; Americans on U.S. action in the gulf; 62% Support; 38% Do not support;...;... 