Spurred by strong increases in tourism and convention business, Las Vegas hotel construction is booming as never before. Between now and 1992, more than 20,000 hotel rooms will be added to the 61,000 existing rooms, hotel owners and industry analysts say, and about 7,000 of those will be in two hotels. But Fletch Brunelle, research coordinator for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, said that there are hotel construction projects under way all over the city. Many of the new rooms are being added to existing hotels, which are also expanding their casinos and convention halls, Leonard added. The construction boom was created, experts say, by an aggressive marketing strategy used in the past few years by the state, the city's Convention Authority and the major hotels to capture conventions, trade shows and group tours. Las Vegas is the third largest convention city in the United States and probably will be No. Tours from Europe The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority hopes to make the city a top destination for tours from Europe as well. The proximity of Southern California to Las Vegas undoubtedly contributes to the fact that the growth in Nevada, in terms of casino revenues and visitors, is overwhelmingly in Clark County, said Andy Grose, executive director of the state's Economic Development Commission. Laughlin, also in Clark County but a little closer than Las Vegas to Los Angeles, had 430 hotel rooms in 1981 but slightly more than 4,000 at the end of 1988, he noted, and it is expected to have about 13,000 at the end of 1991. Seeking Conventions Hotel/casino owners throughout Las Vegas responded the same way to business setbacks in 1979, when casinos first opened in Atlantic City, N.J., and in the early '80s, when there was an economic recession. Las Vegas turned from a weekend regional, getaway place where people would drive to go, to a national convention place competitive with such cities as San Francisco, Chicago and Los Angeles, said Robinson of KPMG Peat Marwick. Pull from the Midwest And I'd say that Las Vegas still enjoys a tremendous pull from the Midwestern states and even from Buffalo and areas approximate to Atlantic City, which is still trying to get better airport and convention facilities to emulate Las Vegas. Although the first of a three-phased, $1-billion expansion of McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas was completed a few years ago, the second phase is under way, and the city has just launched a $35-million expansion of its convention center. Many hotels are also adding convention accommodations, including the Sands, where a 1-million-square-foot convention center, touted as the largest outside a facility operated by a community, is expected to be completed in 17 months. New sites are also coming up for future gaming, convention and hotel development. New Experiences Planned But Las Vegas is banking on more than its current gaming and convention capabilities to draw visitors and fill hotel rooms. Las Vegas is also betting on what state tourism director Moreno describes as new experiences, like the live dolphins that will perform at the Mirage and jousting tournaments that will be held at Excalibur. In the meantime, the race is on to see which hotel will have the most rooms to attract the largest conventions. For some time, the 3,174-room Las Vegas Hilton has been billed as the largest hotel in the free world. A 1,700-room, 42-story tower, which is being called the tallest in the state, is expected to bring the Riviera Hotel's room count to about 4,000 in late 1991 or 1992. Occupancy Rates 85% Current occupancy rates are in the 85% range in Las Vegas, while occupancies range between 65% and 70% for hotels in the rest of the country, according to Hennessey. In the eight years I've been here, not that many new motels have been built because most convention and trade show people want hotels with all their amenities. And when you consider that only about 10% of the people in the United States have ever been to Las Vegas, you know that the city has a hell of a long way to grow. 