Bank of Boston Corp.'s decision to treat its Third World loans much more conservatively is expected to have significant domestic and international repercussions, bankers and analysts say. On the other hand is a group of regional institutions which, with relatively small exposure to developing countries, are willing to establish big reserves against such loans or, as Bank of Boston decided Monday, to completely write off some loans as uncollectible. It's a parting of the ways between the money centers who are out to collect on their assets and the regionals who want to get out, says Lawrence Cohn, an analyst at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. The Bank of Boston decision may well drive a wedge between the money-center banks and the regional banks, adds James J. McDermott, Jr., director of research at Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc., a securities firm which specializes in bank stocks. Actions such as that taken by Bank of Boston highlight a potential competitive edge that regional banks have over money-center banks. The reserve action also could make it easier for institutions like Bank of Boston to attract investors to their stock and other securities, bank analysts said. Earlier this year, Bank of Boston proved one of the more difficult regionals to corral into a $6 billion bank loan for Mexico, according to New York bankers. Now that Bank of Boston has reserved and written off most of its loans to less-developed countries, it's likely to be much less willing to join any such new efforts. For instance, if Manufacturers Hanover Corp. imitated Bank of Boston's action, it would have to add $3.13 billion to reserves and would have a common assets ratio of only 0.69%, Keefe Bruyette estimates. I wouldn't be surprised if some of the medium-sized regionals decided to follow, said Cheryl Swaim, an analyst and vice president at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. In Boston, there were rumors Bank of New England might announce a similar move, but a company spokesman said reserve levels are appropriate. Bank of Boston announced Monday that it was writing off $200 million of loans to less-developed countries and that it was placing all but a small portion of its loans to the Third World on a non-accrual basis. Bank of Boston also placed on non-accrual $470 million in loans to less-developed countries that are unrelated to trade. Along with $330 million in such loans previously put on non-accrual, Bank of Boston has now either charged off, or put on non-accrual, all of its $1 billion loans to heavily indebted developing countries. 