Mr Philip Tose, the maverick Hong Kong financier, once offered Britain's Tory party Pounds 5m to remove Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor. Hong Kong has embarked on the final leg of its journey back to Chinese rule. 'Mr Patten is the governor and the representative of the Hong Kong British government,' says one senior Chinese official in Hong Kong. Some concrete evidence of this new realism is the agreement Beijing reached last month with Britain on the funding for Hong Kong's HKDollars 160bn (Pounds 13bn) airport development. And Chinese officials in Hong Kong indicate a desire to deal with the nitty-gritty of the transfer at a meeting of the Joint Liaison Group, a bilateral body with Britain, this month. But Hong Kong's passage from British colony to a 'special administrative region' of China still seems likely to be dogged by controversy. 'The biggest problem that Hong Kong faces is the stability and continuity of the civil service,' says Mr Allen Lee, the leader of the pro-business Liberal party. Mr Lee says that, 'in general, Hong Kong people are still fearful of the Communist party'. 'We need them; they have made a great contribution to Hong Kong.' It is hard to see how Beijing's desire to maintain a tight grip on the levers of power can be meshed with the traditional independence and professionalism of Hong Kong's civil service. Take school text books, which have recently emerged as an issue because some pro-Beijing figures in Hong Kong do not believe that the current texts used in schools are sufficiently 'patriotic'. 'We are not suggesting any change to the curriculum,' says Mr Tsang Yok Sing, a leading Beijing adviser in Hong Kong who is himself a school headmaster. The through train encapsulated the hope that those elected in 1995 to the Legislative Council (LegCo), Hong Kong's 60-member law making body, would be able to serve their full four-year term, regardless of the 1997 handover. After the dispute on electoral reform, Beijing announced that it would dismiss the 1995 LegCo once China resumed sovereignty of Hong Kong, and replace it with a provisional legislature. This decision is set to take Hong Kong into uncharted waters, and casts doubt over the continuity of the colony's legal system. However, the Basic Law - the China-drafted mini-constitution for post-1997 Hong Kong - does not provide for a provisional legislature as such, although it does foresee a 'preparatory committee' to be formed in 1996 that will determine who sits in this legislature. A strong showing by Hong Kong's pro-democracy groups, led by Mr Martin Lee's Democratic party, will be seen as a protest vote against Beijing. Mr Patten is adamant that he is not leaving Hong Kong until he has discharged his duty. China's supporters in the colony claim that Mr Patten's policy is now to make Hong Kong harder to govern by 'loosening the screws' before the British leave. Britain used such ordinances to control Hong Kong but does not want to leave them on the statute books for the incoming regime. Mr Zhou Nan, the most senior representative of the Chinese Communist party and government in Hong Kong, recently attacked Mr Patten's plans for a government-funded pension, saying: 'During the transition period, we should not casually transplant a costly Euro-socialist pay-as-you-go concept to Hong Kong without prudently taking into consideration similar western programmes' long-standing track record of grossly under-estimating liabilities and grossly over-estimating funding projections.' Mr Patten claims that by 1997 public spending in Hong Kong as a percentage of GDP will be lower than it was in 1982 - the year Britain began handover negotiations with China. 'I don't think Hong Kong needs lectures on how to run an economy or how to control public spending,' he says. One Chinese banker says: 'Hong Kong will become less free; more like Singapore. In Mrs Wu's view: 'There is no absolute guarantee for Hong Kong that the 1984 Sino-British joint declaration will be met. 