President Bill Clinton's pledge to 'end welfare as we know it' was one of the most popular lines in last year's election campaign. His idea of a strict two-year time limit on welfare cheques appealed to voters (especially 'Reagan democrats') not just as a way of cutting government spending and thus reducing taxes, but as a solution to the nation's most pressing social problems. By promising radical welfare reform, Mr Clinton was sending a powerful subliminal message: he would wage war on all the diseases that are ravaging urban society. Since becoming president, Mr Clinton has barely mentioned the word welfare, raising fears that his grandiose promise will prove as cynical as former President George Bush's 'read my lips: no new taxes' pledge. If healthcare reform guarantees health insurance for all workers, welfare recipients will no longer be able to reject jobs on the grounds that they stand to lose their health care benefits. In addition, the administration promises to bolster the economic position of welfare mothers by strictly enforcing laws requiring absent fathers to support their children financially. When pundits talk of a 'culture of welfare' they are referring mainly to the Dollars 20bn spent on Aid for Families with Dependent Children, a benefit received by 5m single-parent families. Those whose welfare benefits expire will face a stark choice: accept low-paid employment or hand over children for adoption. After two years, welfare cheques would thus be replaced by the offer of a government job at slightly below the private sector minimum wage. But it would involve a huge expansion of public sector employment and cost perhaps Dollars 50-60bn a year, far more than the Clinton administration is willing to spend on welfare reform. Next year states will receive federal assistance only if they ensure that at least 15 per cent of the 'employable' welfare case load is working or in training programmes; by 1995 the required ratio rises to 20 per cent. These seemingly undemanding targets require a much larger fraction of the welfare population to take jobs at some point during the year. Mr Clinton could tighten the definition of 'employable', so as to include mothers with children under the age of three, and set more demanding workfare participation targets, for example that 50 per cent of welfare recipients should be working or in training by the year 2000. 