A federal judge sentenced an apparently stunned Michael Milken to 10 years in prison Wednesday after ruling that the crimes he pleaded guilty to were neither minor nor isolated. U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood said the unexpectedly long prison term is meant to make an example of the former Drexel Burnham Lambert junk bond king, whose innovative use of high-yield, high-risk bonds had fueled the corporate takeover frenzy of the 1980s. Milken had pleaded guilty to six felony securities law violations last April. The judge said she based the sentence only on evidence of specific crimes presented in court. Milken's sentence also included three years' probation during which he must perform full-time community service. The judge left open the possibility of reducing the sentence if Milken cooperates with the government. A Milken spokesman said that no decision had been made on whether to appeal the sentence. But when the judge read the sentence, he stood rigid and motionless, with what appeared to be a look of disbelief when she announced the 10-year term. Wood also sentenced him to three years of community service while on probation after his prison sentence. Wood said evidence presented during a pre-sentencing hearing in October convinced her that Milken had committed additional serious crimes beyond the six felony counts he pleaded guilty to in April. The judge also rejected longstanding defense claims that Milken's crimes were aberrations by a generally law-abiding man and that they were the result of overzealousness to help clients rather than greed. At Liman's request, the judge agreed to sentence Milken under a provision of federal law that allows him to be paroled at any time at the discretion of the federal parole commission. Although Milken technically could be paroled almost immediately, government lawyers said the commission normally requires prisoners to serve close to two-thirds of their sentence. The sentence exceeds all others imposed in the series of securities fraud cases that grew out of the insider trading case against investment banker Dennis B. Levine in 1986. But in those cases, the defendants had fully cooperated with the government before their sentencing, turning in prominent former business associates. The judge said she would consider reducing the sentence if prosecutors eventually certify to her that Milken has cooperated fully. Several lawyers said they interpreted the long sentence as an attempt by the judge to ensure that Milken cooperates fully, revealing whatever incriminating information he knows about corporate raiders, junk bond buyers and former co-workers. John C. Coffee, a Columbia University law professor, said the judge may also have imposed the severe sentence because Milken occupied a position of trust at the center of the financial world. The six counts that Milken pleaded guilty to included conspiracy, securities fraud, causing the filing of false information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, mail fraud and aiding in the filing of a false tax return. The sentencing capped the most massive securities fraud investigation ever carried out by the government. The judge did not dispute that Milken had donated much to worthy causes, nor that his charitable activities began well before the investigation of him started in 1986. During the sentencing, Wood disclosed for the first time her findings on the unusual pre-sentencing hearings she presided over in October. Under federal court rulings, Wood is allowed to consider evidence of other crimes in deciding on a sentence. She said the government also did not prove its claim that Milken was guilty of insider trading in Caesars World securities in 1983, and also failed to show that he had illegally made lucrative investment opportunities available to employees of investment funds as inducements to get them to buy riskier securities for their funds. The judge said Milken also had made remarks to employees in the Beverly Hills office in November, 1986, which could only be interpreted as instructions to destroy documents. During the sentencing, Wood derided defense claims that Milken was basically law-abiding and that if he were not, he would have committed more blatant crimes, such as insider trading. Wood's sentence was viewed as a rebuff to many prominent Southern Californians who had written to her urging that Milken's sentence be limited to community service. James Slade, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Prisons, said that under Justice Department rules, the 10-year term makes it unlikely that Milken will be allowed to serve his sentence in a minimum-security federal prison camp. FALL OF THE JUNK BOND KING Here is a chronology of key developments in the prosecution of former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. high-yield bond chief Michael Milken: Nov. April 13, 1989: Drexel and the SEC announce a settlement of the government 's civil fraud case against the firm that subjects Drexel to federal monitoring for three years and forces it to sever ties with Milken. June 15, 1989: Milken resigns after 19 years at Drexel to form his own consulting firm. April 20, 1990: Milken agrees to settle his case and reaches a plea bargain with the government. April 24, 1990: Milken tearfully pleads guilty to six felonies, agrees to pay $600 million in restitution and fines, and agrees to cooperate with the government after sentencing. October 1990: Special two-week hearing to consider the government's array of charges against Milken, ordered by U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood to gain greater insight into Milken's character in order to fashion a fair sentence for the six counts he admitted. 21, 1990: Milken is sentenced to 10 years in jail, plus three years' probation, plus 1,800 hours of community service. 