Beijing, February 26 (XINHUA) -- The recent passage of Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's partial electoral bill by its Legislative Council (Legco) was not accidental, but long premeditated. Over the past two days, the British side also published a white paper and unilaterally made public the contents of last year's 17 rounds of Sino-British talks on the arrangements for the 1994-1995 elections in Hong Kong. This string of actions is the inevitable result of the change of Britain's policies toward China and its stubborn perseverance in violating the Sino-British Joint Declaration, the principle of convergence with the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the relevant agreements and understandings reached between the two countries. These actions fully show that the British side has closed the door of negotiations between the two sides and is finally taking a road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system. It is known to all that shortly after Patten became Hong Kong governor in 1992, he began to sell his political bill step by step under the pretence of increasing democracy in Hong Kong, in an attempt to change Hong Kong's present political structure and pull the pro-British elements and those who are opposed to China onto the political stage, so as to turn Hong Kong into an independent or semi-independent political entity which cannot be controlled by the central government of China after 1997. The British side time and again said that Patten's political bill was aimed at promoting Hong Kong's prosperity and stability and completely considered the aspirations of the Hong Kong residents. Article 45 and article 68 of the Basic Law also stipulate that Hong Kong's political system should be developed in the light of the actual situation and in accordance with the principle of gradual and orderly progress. However, Patten hurriedly put forward his political reform bill less than three months after he began to serve as Hong Kong governor, without absorbing opinions from the Hong Kong residents. More serious was that, despite strong appeals from Hong Kong residents for the settlement of the electoral arrangements through talks, the political reform bill submitted by Patten was passed. The Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law stipulate that the British administration of Hong Kong will terminate on June 30, 1997, and the Chinese Government will resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong as of July 1, 1997. In accordance with these provisions, the Chinese side has reiterated that as component parts of the British political body administering Hong Kong, the last British-Hong Kong district boards, the two municipal polls and the Legislative Council will definitely be terminated together with the end of the British administration of Hong Kong. No matter how far the British side will walk along the road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system, it absolutely cannot prevent the progress of history. China holds that as long as the Hong Kong compatriots and the mainland people closely cooperate and completely implement the principle of one country, two systems , the future of Hong Kong will be bright. 