For two months last summer the citizens of Cooke City and its tiny suburb, Silver Gate, were showcased on the nightly TV news and splashed across the front pages of the nation's newspapers as forest fires threatened to burn them out. "The first thing most people around here did was go on vacation," said Patti Smith, owner with her husband, Bob, of the Bearclaw Service and Cabins, a gas station and small motel. The Smiths, who own the only photocopy machine for 30 miles in every direction, found their small gas station and convenience store a mecca during the fires. The U.S. Forest Service, which coordinated some of its firefighting efforts from Cooke City, set up shop near the photocopy machine, and everybody who had information or was seeking some crammed into the Smiths' log cabin office. "It was crazy for a while," said Mrs. Smith, 33. Winter now cloaks Cooke City and Silver Gate, and only about 70 year-round residents remain to weather the below-zero months. Nearly four feet of snow has piled up against the Smiths' cabins and "that's just the way I like it," exulted Mrs. Smith. This winter, Mrs. Smith also has a new project. Like nearly everybody else in Cooke City and Silver Gate, Mrs. Smith says she never wants to go through another summer like the last one. Because of the unprecedented fire season which burned nearly 1.5 million acres in the greater Yellowstone ecosystem, including 705,000 acres within the national park, Mrs. Smith and her friends and neighbors worry about what's happening underneath the blanket of snow this winter. "Are there still smoldering embers out there deep in the roots of the trees?" wondered Mrs. Smith. "Could the fires survive the winter and pick up and come at us again?" Rod Norum, a fire behavior analyst with the National Park Service, said he would not be surprised if pockets of fire are found in the greater Yellowstone area come spring. "It's not the sort of thing to be concerned about, it would only be a matter of curiosity and interest because the fires are still under suppression orders and they would be mopped up and put out immediately, I'm sure," said Norum, who is based at the Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho. 