WASHINGTON -- By choosing Clarence Thomas, a conservative black federal judge, for the Supreme Court, President Bush may have defused a fierce political battle over the high court's shift to the right. Judge Thomas, who has been sitting on the federal appeals court in Washington for just 14 months, won't be confirmed without a fight in the Senate focusing on his inexperience on the bench and his strong opposition to affirmative action. But barring damaging unforeseen revelations about Judge Thomas, Democrats will have a hard time mounting a broad-based campaign against the affable 43-year-old, who is smart, tough and speaks powerfully about overcoming racism and poverty in the deep South. Judge Thomas's nomination yesterday got a restrained reaction from many Senate Democrats. Civil rights groups, too, said they will have to study his record, both in his brief tenure on the appeals court and as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission during the Reagan administration. The choice also will put Democrats on the defensive: Judge Thomas draws praise even from some liberals. He has been a very good colleague, says Chief Judge Abner Mikva of the appeals court here, a former Democratic congressman. While liberals will focus on Judge Thomas's legal inexperience, his record on the bench doesn't present them with the sort of target they had with the articulated, sharply conservative legal views of Robert Bork, whose Supreme Court nomination was defeated in 1987. A number of Senate Democrats, including Judiciary Chairman Joseph Biden of Delaware, stressed when Judge Thomas was confirmed for the appeals court that he would face tougher scrutiny if he were nominated for the Supreme Court. Judge Thomas's strong opposition to affirmative action and the abortion debate will be grist for his confirmation hearings. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio, who was the lone opponent last year in the Senate Judiciary Committee's 12-to-1 approval of his appeals court nomination. Women have a right to know whether Judge Thomas is committed to protecting their fundamental rights. Abortion-rights groups are also likely to be concerned about the fact that Judge Thomas is a Catholic who spent a year in a Missouri seminary in the 1960s pondering the priesthood. As other Supreme Court nominees have done, however, Judge Thomas is likely to go to great lengths to avoid committing himself on abortion, an issue that is expected to come before the court again and again. Ralph Neas, executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, said, With so many constitutional rights and personal liberties at stake, the Senate must make sure Clarence Thomas has demonstrated a commitment to equal opportunity and equal justice under the law.... To friends and colleagues of Judge Thomas, his own life story is the most compelling thing about him. Though Judge Thomas may not find favor with those groups, the fact is that he knew nothing but segregation as he grew up outside Savannah, Ga., in the 1950s. As a child, Judge Thomas said, I could not dare dream that I would ever see the Supreme Court, not to mention be nominated to it. Liberals charged that, across-the-board, the EEOC under Mr. Thomas's leadership didn't aggressively attack civil rights violations. Judge Thomas is well-liked by colleagues, both at the EEOC, where the new headquarters building is named for him, and at the appeals court. In light of the administration's strong attack on racial quotas in hiring, President Bush's selection of a black man to fill Justice Marshall's seat brought questions about whether he was in fact observing a quota on the court. In his press conference, Mr. Bush strongly denied the very thought of that, insisting that race wasn't a factor in the selection of Judge Thomas. Judge Thomas, who just turned 43 last week, would be the youngest Supreme Court justice of the past 100 years with the exception of William O. Douglas, who joined the court when he was 40. If they go smoothly, Justice Thomas could be sworn in before the new Supreme Court term begins on Oct. 