By the time he was a high school student in the San Fernando Valley, it was clear that Michael Milken had a bright future. By many estimates, Milken probably achieved that milestone, because by the age of 30 he was a fast-rising star at the fast-rising securities firm of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., managing its high-yield junk bond operations and reaping huge profits for the firm and himself. The news Wednesday that Milken will be fired by Drexel and will not paid his 1988 bonus of $200 million as part of the company's settlement of securities fraud charges signals the end to the Milken era at Drexel. Michael Robert Milken, the center of the nation's biggest securities fraud investigation ever, arguably is the most significant and visionary figure in American business in the 1980s, the J. Milken virtually single-handedly pioneered the modern junk bond market, now worth $180 billion in total bonds outstanding, and the fuel that has financed hundreds of small- and middle-size businesses and wave after wave of corporate takeovers. He has indelibly changed the course and face of the investment banking business and the economy as a whole, said Fredric Roberts, head of a Los Angeles investment banking firm bearing his name and Southern California district director for the National Assn. of Securities Dealers. He has an unusual recollection of detail and could recite the terms on every high-yield bond in America. His crowning achievement -- the creation and growth of the modern junk bond market -- has yet to weather a serious recession. And while his junk bond machine transformed Drexel from a second-rate securities firm into one of the most powerful on Wall Street, his alleged transgressions as its junk bond chief ultimately could be the firm's undoing. While Milken's junk bonds helped companies create thousands of new jobs, they also led to layoffs of workers at firms taken over by raiders financed by junk bonds. And while Milken's family foundations donated millions of dollars of his profits to various charitable causes, he also is accused of questionable practices that netted exorbitant profits for himself and colleagues. But whatever the future of Drexel and its once-star junk bond chief, it is clear that Milken is an exceptional individual who was driven from the very beginning with unusual determination. Junk bonds at the time were primarily debt issues that were once highly rated but had fallen in value and increased in risk when the issuing companies fell on hard times. Milken believed that investors were overly pessimistic about these bonds -- which often could be bought for as little as 20 cents or 30 cents on the dollar -- and that their higher yields more than compensated for their added risk of default. Investors holding diversified portfolios of many junk bonds would earn higher profits, even if some of the bonds defaulted, he reasoned. Milken's shrewd trading of junk bonds soon began making millions of dollars for Drexel -- and for himself and his band of hard-working traders and salesmen. Finally, in 1978, Milken asked to move the junk bond trading operation from New York to the Century City section of Los Angeles. Soon, Milken found that trading junk bonds wasn't enough. He and Drexel began underwriting new junk bonds, issued by companies that were too small, young or risky to get conventional bank loans or issue conventional high-rated corporate bonds. Milken viewed the issuance of junk bonds by small- and medium-size companies as part of a crusade to change the face of corporate America. Milken correctly felt that those companies were the economy's true job creators, and allowing them access to capital markets would unleash a wave of entrepreneurial innovation that would make America more competitive. To spur this crusade, Milken also created and unleashed a stable of corporate raiders whose hostile takeover bids were made possible by junk financing. I'd talk to Mike from time to time just to get ideas, said Eli Broad, chairman and chief executive of Kaufman &amp; Broad, a Los Angeles home builder and occasional Drexel client. Companies ranging from MCI to Metromedia, from Holiday Inns to Levitz Furniture, used Drexel-underwritten bonds to finance growth or takeovers. Entire industry segments, such as health maintenance organizations, home building, entertainment and hotels, derived much of their financing through Drexel's junk juggernaut, Horowitz notes. But despite the image of Milken as a devoted father and charitable giver, federal investigators and critics believe that he built his junk bond empire partly on deceit and manipulation. Investigators believe that institutions and individuals may have been pressured into buying and selling junk bonds through an incestuous system of favors and obligations. Junk bond issuers often were asked to buy junk bonds issued by other corporations. Drexel and Milken defenders say such practices were necessary to maintain orderly markets in junk bonds where there were few buyers and sellers anyway. Although takeovers account for only about a fourth of junk bonds issued, the Securities and Exchange Commission and federal prosecutors charge, among other things, that Drexel's junk bond operations engaged in an array of securities violations, including market manipulation, inadequate disclosure, parking of securities to hide their true ownership and other infractions. And Drexel's expected guilty pleas will not help his defense, a situation that Milken supporters at Drexel say amounts to a cold betrayal of the man who put the firm on the map. 