And he wasn't even named John Sununu.; But the rise and fall of Sherman Adams, President Eisenhower's powerful chief-of-staff, is more than an interesting political doppleganger to the travails of his lineal heir, John Sununu. The case of Sherman Adams sheds an eerie light on Sununu's rise in the ancient, stony soil of New Hampshire politics. And the course of Sherman Adams' humiliation may even allow us a perspective on the course of John Sununu's struggle for survival and possibly even a way to predict the timing of his ultimate demise.; That Sherman Adams, the first assistant president and John Sununu, conceivably the last of the imperial chiefs of staff, were both catapulted from governor of the Granite state into national prominence is not at all coincidental. With its first-in-the-nation primary, New Hampshire has historically exerted a pull far in excess of a population still only marginally larger than the city of Detroit.; Sherman Adams had risen in New Hampshire politics of the '30s and '40s because of his organizational abilities and the perception of his incorruptibility.; After graduating from Dartmouth, Adams worked as a logging camp supervisor and eventually rose to become an executive in one of New Hampshire's leading timber companies. In 1940, at the behest of his employers, he ran for a seat in the New Hampshire House, eventually becoming governor in 1949.; When he took office, Adams began a program of streamlining and reducing state government that provided a model followed three decades later for another new New Hampshire governor, John Sununu.; In late 1951, New Hampshire was the launching pad for the campaign of Dwight D. Eisenhower.; Eisenhower, with Adams' support, defeated the isolationist Sen. Without Sununu, the chances are very good that the current president of the United States would not be named George Bush.; In February 1988, a reeling Bush campaign limped into New Hampshire after finishing a near-fatal third in the Iowa caucus. Don't you see how much good I'm going to do for the next president of the United States? ; And true to his words, Sununu crafted an attack campaign that painted Bush's chief rival, Bob Dole, as a closet tax and spend liberal. That ploy, plus a computerized get-out-the-vote campaign, crafted by Sununu on his own spreadsheet program, did the trick, and the rest is history.; Unlike Sherman Adams, John Sununu could not be mistaken for a rock-ribbed Granite Stater. In the early '60s, he began building a solid career running the several engineering firms he founded and also became a professor of physics at Tufts University.; Sununu was elected to the New Hampshire Assembly in 1972, and 10 years later became governor of New Hampshire on a conservative campaign theme of nuclear power, increased business and no new taxes.; It was a propitious era to be governor of New Hampshire. The Wall Street Journal noted that Sununu became an extremely powerful figure in a state where the powers of governor are not great. ; More or less the same thing could have been said about Sherman Adams when he gave up the New Hampshire governorship to become Dwight Eisenhower's assistant president in 1953.; The reason for Adams' enormous power lay in the nature of the Eisenhower presidency. This power as the presidential gatekeeper has characterized the chief-of-staff position ever since.; Adams managed to keep the Eisenhower administration on a more or less even keel through the worst of the McCarthy outrages, through Eisenhower's heart attack in 1955, the Suez crises in 1956, the Little Rock school integration crimes in 1957 and the invasion of Lebanon in 1958.; According to Eisenhower, Adams was successful because From our first meeting in 1952, Sherman Adams seemed to me best described as laconic, abrupt, businesslike and puritanically honest. Adams was the shining example that Republicans could hold up that they had done something about their 1952 campaign slogan to clean up the mess in Washington. ; Thus, the spring 1958 revelations that Adams had for years enjoyed free hotel accommodations and accepted the now legendary vicuna coat and an expensive rug from an unsavory New England industrialist named Bernard Goldfine, while at the same time interceding with regulatory agencies on Goldfine's behalf, came as a major shock.; Adams waged a vigorous and seemingly successful defense before a congressional committee, asserting that his worse crime had been a mistake of judgment, not of intent. ; And there things stood throughout the summer of 1958, with a somewhat tarnished Adams carrying out the role he had defined over the previous six years. The year 1958 was the beginning of the Democratic renaissance that led to the election of John Kennedy in 1960.; Today, as Vice President Dan Quayle could tell you, John Sununu is no Sherman Adams. 