In choosing federal Judge Robert Bork for the Supreme Court, President Reagan has tapped a leading architect of conservative legal theory -- and has ensured a tough confirmation battle in the Senate. The selection of the 60-year-old Judge Bork to replace retiring Justice Lewis Powell gives the president his third Supreme Court appointment and by far his greatest opportunity to alter the court's direction. But in Judge Bork, appointed by Mr. Reagan in 1982 to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, the president has picked a rare judicial -- rather than a political -- conservative, a judge committed to a narrow role for the courts rather than to the Reagan administration's political agenda. A scholar and formidable writer, the former Yale Law School professor has made his mark in antitrust law and a wide range of constitutional issues, urging judges to base their rulings on the intent of the framers of the Constitution. And liberal Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee, fearful that Mr. Reagan's choice may upset the Supreme Court's moderate balance, have made clear they will fight any candidate whose views about the Constitution and the courts are too conservative. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, a Judiciary Committee member, lost no time urging that Judge Bork should be defeated. Judge Bork, widely regarded as the most prominent and intellectually powerful advocate of judicial restraint, shares my views that judges' personal preferences and values should not be part of their constitutional interpretations, Mr. Reagan said. He described Judge Bork, who stood next to him without comment, as an impressive legal mind and a premier constitutional authority. From the outset, Judge Bork was the clear front-runner to fill the vacancy, being favored by Attorney General Edwin Meese and his aides. The only questions were whether to go with a younger conservative whose influence would last well into the next century and whether the strength of Judge Bork's conservative views would make his confirmation too difficult. But the expectation, even among some Democrats, is that Judge Bork will be approved. Committee Democrats say they don't expect to start hearings until September, raising questions about whether Judge Bork would be approved by the Supreme Court's opening next Oct. Judge Bork is a difficult target, since his intellectual prowess is widely respected in legal circles, even by those who disagree with him. Paul Simon of Illinois, both presidential candidates, must satisfy liberal civil-rights groups that are already gearing up to battle the nomination and at the same time must avoid embarrassing themselves by using specious arguments, especially if the fight against Judge Bork proves futile. Judge Bork was at one time a cross-country skier and tennis player, and he recently resumed playing tennis out of apparent concern about his weight and general health. At a solicitor general's office reunion in 1978, the dinner went some $250 over budget because Judge Bork kept the bar open well after the planned closing. In 1973, President Nixon tapped him to be solicitor general, the Justice Department official who represents the executive branch before the Supreme Court. Judge Bork returned to Yale from 1977 to 1981 when he practiced law for a year before he was nominated for the federal appeals court in Washington, D.C. Mr. Richardson, now a Washington lawyer, defends Mr. Bork's actions. But it is Judge Bork's prolific and forceful writings as a law professor and judge that have earned him his reputation as an intellectual leader of conservative legal thought for a generation of law school graduates. Unless Judge Bork can demonstrate to me that he comes to the court with an open mind, I would have some difficulty, said Sen. And the AFL-CIO urged senators to refrain from endorsing Judge Bork until they can carefully review his record. Once a New Deal liberal, Judge Bork became more conservative while at the University of Chicago. In 1968, in a Fortune magazine article, he was strongly critical of the Supreme Court under Chief Justice Earl Warren, saying it is in the process of descending in national estimation from a position above the battle to the status of a political institution. It was that 1965 ruling that was the basis for the Supreme Court's 1973 decision recognizing a woman's right to an abortion, and Judge Bork's criticism of sexual privacy has caused alarm among women's groups over his nomination. Judge Bork has been widely and sharply critical of the Supreme Court's 1964 decision establishing the principle of one person, one vote. As a judge, he has devoted much of his energy to questions of what are proper issues for courts to decide, taking a tough view on when a plaintiff has suffered sufficient injury to bring a lawsuit. He is a good friend of President Reagan's last nominee, Justice Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice William Rehnquist used to stay with Judge Bork on visits to Yale. 