Recently, Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten published an article entitled Go Against the North Wind. Just as he said in his article, the reason is that what he has done since he became governor of Hong Kong has been criticized and condemned not only by China and people of Hong Kong, but also by people in Britain. The most important point of the article is that Chris Patten was trying hard to explain that all he had done was in the interests of the Hong Kong people. This British Hong Kong governor is really more concerned about Hong Kong than the Hong Kong people. But for the Hong Kong people, of course the Hong Kong Chinese, what should be put first is certainly that they should be treated as real Chinese people of China rather than a conquered people in a colony, and the first responsibility of Britain is to ensure a smooth return of Hong Kong to China in accordance with the Sino-British Joint Declaration. In fact, responsibility toward the citizens of Hong Kong advocated by Chris Patten is actually for the colonialist interests of the British Empire. What is more, judging from a long-term point of view, our position in China and Asia may, to a great extent, be decided by how we discharge our responsibility in Hong Kong in a dignified manner. To the Chinese people, the following is understandable: Hong Kong was plundered after the Opium War, a war of aggression launched by Britain against China. Then what did he mean by saying Hong Kong is the biggest and most important part of Sino-British relations? People will also ask: Why will the position of Britain in China and Asia be decided by how Britain discharges its responsibility in Hong Kong in a dignified manner? If Britain ensures a smooth return of Hong Kong to China in accordance with the Sino-British Joint Declaration, is it not a practice in a dignified manner? Does Britain really want to return Hong Kong to China only in name while preserving its position as the governor to show the power and prestige of the British Empire and go on playing the tyrant in China and Asia as a colonialist? Chris Patten, the last governor of Hong Kong, has been trying hard to preserve an actual colonial position in Hong Kong and revitalize the colonialist power and prestige of the old British Empire. 