The Shining Path Central Committee, comprised of leaders who have still not been arrested and alternate members elected by the Shining Path congress in 1988, held a meeting in February that was presided over by Oscar Ramirez Durand, a.k.a. During the meeting, the Shining Path Central Committee decided to continue the people's war and to consider those members who uphold the peace accord with the government to be removed from the party by their own free will. The document entitled To Grow Strong on the Grounds of Partisan Unity and Conquer Power [Reafirmarse en la Base de Unidad Partidaria y Construir la Conquesta del Power], which contains the conclusions of the Shining Path event, criticizes the leaders under arrest who try to convince the militants still operating to uphold the great decision and definition, that is, Abimael Guzman's appeal for the Shining Path to end hostilities against the Peruvian state. A Shining Path pamphlet dated February, which is signed by the leaders under arrest, asserts that the people's war has ended, and (therefore) to continue refusing to uphold (the great decision and definition ) means obstructing the Peace Accord and placing the life of President Gonzalo and other comrades at stake. But the Central Committee meeting in February disqualified the arrested leaders, stating that it is an international communist rule that no leader can lead (the party or a war) from prison. Dincote also obtained information according to which Feliciano presided over the meeting, during which it was decided to start a new phase of the people's war as well as plan an operation to rescue Abimael Guzman, dead or alive, at any cost. The following is one of the citations chosen by the Shining Path Central Committee to uphold its decisions: Always taking into account the glorious actions of the people's war, the people's war cannot end. This was selected from the document entitled To Conquer Power in the Midst of the People's War that was drafted during the Second Shining Path Central Committee Plenum, when Guzman was still free. The first of the five points discussed during the meeting refers to reasserting the agreements reached during the Third Central Committee Plenum, which was held in March 1992 and headed by Abimael Guzman Reinoso. It seems that the Third Central Committee Plenum's assessment of what was happening to the Shining Path was negative and, therefore, it was decided to unleash a fierce wave of violence in order to conceal the weaknesses of the Maoist organization. The second point of the document of the Central Committee meeting presided over by Feliciano highlights the agreements of the Working Meeting of the Shining Path leadership held in August 1993, almost one year after Guzman was arrested, and during which the implementation of the agreements of the Third Plenum held in March 1992 was discussed. 2. To reassert the conclusions of the Third Central Committee Plenum (March 1992), personally presided over by President Gonzalo, whose victorious appearance revealed its glorious, historic, and momentous nature; the second most important milestone after the congress (held in 1988). Based on the conclusions of the Third Plenum and the Working Meeting, the Central Committee, during the meeting in February presided over by Feliciano, reasserted the principle of revolutionary violence as a universal law expressed in the people's war. The third point discussed during the Central Committee meeting headed by Feliciano referred to the militants who uphold the peace accord. In order to confront the Black Group or LOD, which are nothing but Shining Path militants who sign Abimael Guzman's letters and uphold his great decision and definition to negotiate with the government in order to end the war, the Central Committee demands that the militants grow stronger on the Basis for Partisan Unity [Base de Unidad Partidaria, BUP], which is the Shining Path basic principles adopted during the 1988 Congress, and arrange for conquering power in the midst of the people's war. The Central Committee Plenum that Feliciano presided over in order to break away from the Black Group orders the unleashing of a massive reassertion movement based on the BUP throughout the party, the People's Liberation Army, and among the masses of the New Power. 2. Abimael Guzman's letters to President Alberto Fujimori, the telephone conversation between Guzman and Javier Esparza Marquez (Guzman's brother-in-law, who is in charge of Shining Path's organization abroad), and the communiques released by Shining Path prisoners are a counterrevolutionary scheme concocted by Yankee imperialists and the genocidal and traitorous dictatorship with the sinister help of the Black Group, the Central Committee concluded at its February meeting. The Central Committee does acknowledge Guzman as its leader, and gives him credit for the ideology he devised, the so-called Gonzalo's Thoughts, but now he is considered to be a merely decorative figure because neither the party nor the war can be led from a cell, especially when the leader is kept incommunicado and his contacts with the outside world must go through government officials. 4. The activities of the Black Group go against the conclusions of the Marxist-Leninist-Maoist-Gonzalo's Thoughts First Congress (1988), the BUP, the leadership, the party, and the people's war, which means that its members have voluntarily strayed from the party. This clearly means that the negotiators of the peace agreement no longer belong to the Shining Path because their actions openly violate the agreements, resolutions, and decisions reached at party meetings such as the Third Plenum and the Working Meeting. The Central Committee meeting that Feliciano presided over clearly defined its position toward Abimael Guzman Reinoso, whose ideological contribution to the people's war, called Gonzalo's Thoughts, was acknowledged. This communique warned against and denounced the reports of Feliciano's Central Committee, which decided to go on with the war. Guzman's call upon the militants in action to abide by the decision to hold talks with the administration in order to stop the war, and to fight those who disagree with this decision, is persistent: Once again we warn the militants to be on guard against any desperate action, adventure, or provocation from third parties, because the goal of all this is to scuttle the proposed peace agreement. Meanwhile, the Central Committee has acknowledged Gonzalo's Thoughts as the ideological basis for the people's war, Guzman Reinoso's leadership and his inability to lead the party and the war from prison, and has decided to reorganize the Shining Path machine to launch a new stage of the war without Guzman. The Dincote report, which confirmed that Feliciano presided over a Shining Path Central Committee meeting somewhere in Razuillca, added that it has been decided to rescue Abimael Guzman Reinoso, dead or alive. 