Prospects for enactment of the first minimum-wage increase in eight years have improved sharply in recent days, sparked by Vice President George Bush's call for a boost in the wage floor. Wage-increase bills were languishing on Capitol Hill only two weeks ago, with many members of Congress reluctant to support a wage rise in the face of heavy small-business lobbying and arguments that the increase would mean job losses. But the tide began to turn when Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential candidate, voiced his support for a higher minimum wage soon after he was jeered by Portland, Ore., shipyard workers who have suffered pay cuts in recent years. Now, with the Senate debating a minimum-wage bill on the floor, and House members more eager to follow with similar action of their own, the national election dynamics have changed the whole issue, said Robert Martin, human-resources manager for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which opposes the legislation. President Reagan, who had sternly characterized minimum-wage increases as causing unemployment, was quoted by the Detroit News last week as saying he and Mr. Bush were in agreement -- there could be some {minimum wage} increase because of inflation. The Senate took up the minimum-wage bill late last week, and backers and opponents alike said prospects are strong for Senate approval of the measure. But the AFL-CIO and many other backers of a minimum-wage boost say the training wage is merely a way for employers to get cheap, entry-level workers. Kennedy has offered a substitute amendment that would allow each employer to pay 85% of the minimum wage to as many as 12 full-time students, instead of the limit of six students set by current law. The Senate bill would boost the minimum wage from the current $3.35 an hour, which has prevailed since January 1981, to $4.55 an hour over three years. Provisions that would tie increases in the minimum wage to rises in average manufacturing wages after three years have been stricken from the bills. 