Few Americans much notice that Saddam Hussein of Iraq is accusing his small neighbors of harboring an "imperial-Zionist plan" to drive down the price of oil. What led to that, the quarrel between Iraq and its little neighbor, Kuwait, just seemed like another of those wrangles over oil production and pricing that occur before the meetings of OPEC sheiks and statesmen. Oil? The oil glut was the problem for Saddam Hussein of Iraq. Oil prices and oil revenues were falling. Saddam found a pair of villains _ Kuwait, his wartime supporter and financier, and the United Arab Emirates. Kuwait and the UAE were in fact, as Saddam Hussein charged, exceeding their OPEC oil production quotas by over a million barrels a day and thus helping to keep oil prices depressed. Oil was bringing $14 a barrel, 20 percent lower than the year before. And he wants Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to pay $14 billion to compensate for what he says Iraq lost due to low oil prices. July 18: A letter from Saddam's foreign minister to the Arab League accuses Kuwait of having stolen $2.4 billion worth of petroleum over the past decade from an Iraqi oil field along the two nations' disputed border. July 23: Unconfirmed reports say that Iraq has massed 30,000 troops to its border and that the Pentagon has put its warships in the Persian Gulf on alert. July 24: Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing Iraqi oil. July 25: President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, seeking to carve out a peacemaker's role, says Iraq and Kuwait have agreed to send delegations to the Saudi Arabian summer capital of Jiddah to discuss their differences. July 27: At a tense meeting in Geneva, OPEC agrees to limit oil production and raise its target price by $3 to $21 a barrel. In Washington, the House and Senate defy Bush administration opposition and vote for economic sanctions against Iraq. These reflect an accumulation of complaints over Iraq's attempt to intimidate neighbors, its human rights record, its use of poison gas during the Iran-Iraq war against its Kurdish minority, its drive to build nuclear weapons. The State Department says the votes will not be helpful to diplomatic efforts to modify Saddam's behavior. Tensions _ and oil prices _ rise. Kuwait calls for urgent American military assistance but Iraq threatens to turn Kuwait into a "graveyard" if an outside power intervenes. Finally, he commits massive American force, the largest dispatched since the Vietnam war, to protect Saudi Arabia from Kuwait's fate. He says they will serve until Saddam withdraws from Kuwait. 