Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen, says David Shulman, a Salomon Brothers economist who tracks real estate markets. The only reason Las Vegas has been booming is because it was on the periphery of Southern California. Exciting new projects and aggressive marketing could help the casinos goose their gambling numbers for a while -- barring a shooting war in the Mideast that plays havoc with fuel supplies. As a city that thrived on the free-spending ways of others, Las Vegas was made for the 1980s. While gamblers spent money wildly, builders transformed the Las Vegas valley's dirt roads, rock and sand into a carpet of housing developments, man-made ponds and golf courses. We are now a mature and diverse community that just doesn't have the same reliance on casino gaming as it once did, boasts Don Haze, a commercial real estate broker who opened a Coldwell Banker commercial leasing office in 1981. But a lengthy downturn could undo some of the image-building that Las Vegas underwent in the 1980s. Keith Schwer, of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's Center for Business and Economic Research. The recession in the early '80s spurred city leaders to mount a campaign to help Las Vegas break out of its dependency on the casino industry. In 1983, the Nevada state Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to Las Vegas. Still, Las Vegas isn't Phoenix, and there haven't been any billion-dollar thrift seizures or distressed land sales yet. Las Vegas does have excesses that are uniquely its own. Now Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. Other once-proud Las Vegas names have been tarnished by closings and bankruptcy filings. It's what I call the rule of 500, says Alan Pomerantz, a real estate attorney with Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges in New York City. While the twin engines of Las Vegas's housing growth -- the casino industry and the spillover from the California market -- are beginning to sputter, housing starts continue to climb. Over the next year, builders have applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. Economists cite another disturbing trend in Las Vegas's growth pattern: A full 8.1% of all payroll workers are in the construction sector, suggesting that there aren't enough indigenous industries to pick up the slack once things quiet down. He cashed in on the California real estate boom last year and moved to the serenity of the Nevada desert, where he lives in Del Webb Corp.'s Sun City, a planned community. With the California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't have made my deal today, he says. But they used to say that when California got a cold, Las Vegas got pneumonia. 