-- More than 90% of police chiefs and sheriffs surveyed agree that criminals are not affected by a ban on any type of firearm, while more than 70% oppose waiting periods for the same reason. -- A prisoner survey conducted by James D. Wright et al. found that unarmed felons listed tougher penalties for using a gun as an important reason for not arming themselves. -- 75%-80% of U.S. violent crimes are committed by career criminals, many on some form of conditional or early release (30%-35% of career criminals are rearrested with previous criminal charges still pending). -- Gary Kleck found that using a gun for protection from violent crime -- rape, robbery, assault -- reduces the likelihood that the crime will be completed and that intended victims will be injured. Clearly, the issue at hand is not gun control but, rather, crime control. According to Mr. Gartner, this year about 3,000 teen-agers... will use handguns to kill themselves. Frank T. Iorio Mamaroneck, N.Y. --- As a life member of the National Rifle Association, I agree with Mr. Gartner -- it is not too much to ask for a nationwide seven-day 'cooling-off' period (the Brady Bill) to give the authorities time for background checks. As a law-abiding citizen, it would be of comfort to know that other potential handgun buyers would be screened and keep those with a criminal past from owning a handgun. The reason Washington has yet to enact serious gun-control laws is due to the enormous voting and financial pressure of the pro-gun lobby. James Forbes Atlanta --- It is refreshing to read the actual motives of those who claim they simply want a waiting period for the purchase of a handgun. Mr. Gartner has now made it abundantly clear that his goal is the elimination of handguns from our society. Mr. Gartner ignores the key issues regarding suicide and crime. As evidenced by New York City and Washington, which have the nation's strictest gun-control laws and virtually ban the ownership of handguns by law-abiding citizens, Mr. Gartner's placebo doesn't work because it ignores the root causes of suicide and crime. Richard W. Bonds Cordova, Tenn. --- Mr. Gartner should have read The Federalist No. 