The calm waters of Prince William Sound have stymied efforts to disperse the largest oil spill in U.S. history, which spewed from a ship that ran aground trying to avoid chunks of ice, officials said. The spill of some 270,000 barrels _ or 11.3 million gallons _ occurred early Friday when the 987-foot tanker Exxon Valdez went hard aground on Bligh Reef, about 25 miles outside Valdez, the northermost ice-free port in the United States. He said Exxon officials plan to pump the oil remaining aboard the Exxon Valdez onto the Exxon Baton Rouge, another tanker. Early Friday the Exxon Valdez was losing 20,000 gallons of oil per hour, but the flow slowed to a trickle later. "This is the largest oil spill in U.S. history and it unfortunately took place in an enclosed water body with numerous islands, channels, bays and fiords," said Richard Golob, publisher of the Golob Oil Pollution Bulletin. "A spill of this size in such a complex environment promises to be a cleanup nightmare," said Golob, a Cambridge, Mass.-based consultant whose firm has studied oil spills and environmental disasters for 15 years. The Exxon Valdez had loaded 1.2 million barrels of oil at the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. marine terminal at Valdez and was en route to Long Beach, Calif., when it crunched onto the reef. Jason Wells, executive director of the Valdez Fisheries Development Association, said he believed the oil slick would cause little damage unless wind pushes it back toward Valdez. But the spill likely will draw increasing fire from environmentalists sensitive about the trans-Alaska pipeline and efforts to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil development. Valdez City Manager Doug Griffin said the 800-mile trans-Alaska pipeline which carries oil from Prudhoe Bay to Valdez and the marine terminal have an enviable environmental record. The largest tanker spill in history was in the July 19, 1979, collision off Tobago of the supertankers Atlantic Empress and Aegean Captain, in which 300,000 tons _ more than 80 million gallons _ of oil was lost. 