Since Slovenia's declaration of independence in June 1991, the gap between the peaceful, ethnically homogeneous new republic of 2m people and the war-impoverished rest of former Yugoslavia has widened inexorably. 'We have been very lucky,' says President Milan Kucan, the wily former communist who led Slovenia's drive for independence from the Serb- dominated federation. But he, like Mr Janez Drnovsek, the prime minister of Slovenia's three-pronged coalition government, makes clear that Slovenia suffers economically from the disintegration of Yugoslavia and would be one of the principal gainers from a resolution of the bloody Balkan imbroglio. 'Slovenia's southern border with Croatia has become the border between peace and war in Europe,' Mr Kucan declares. Austria is insulated from the war-torn regions of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, both once ruled by the Austrian Habs- burgs, thanks to its own 324 km-long border with Slovenia. The new Karavanke road tunnel beneath the Alps, completed just before the 10-day war between Slovenia and the Yugoslav army which immediately followed indep- endence, has underlined Slovenia's traditional importance as a transit route. Independence has, above all, brought peace to Slovenia and left it free to implement the kind of rational market reforms and privatisation policies which remain blocked in the republics absorbed and impoverished by war further south. Slovenia, with its self- contained infrastructure and proximity to western markets, was always by far the richest republic of the former federation. Slovenia has always had a strong tourism industry of its own. So have the transit tourists through Slovenia. Now Slovenia has to lower real wages and increase productivity in order to compensate. On the positive side of the balance sheet, however, the end of the federal state means that Slovenia no longer has to contribute over Dollars 1bn a year to finance the bloated Yugoslav army or see its hard currency deposits 'frozen' by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, as happened before independence. Relations with Croatia, Slovenia's southern neighbour, are generally good but they are complicated by three contentious issues. But a mixture of compassion for the suffering of their fellow southern Slavs and economic loss ensures that the Slovene authorities, while categorically ruling out any possibility of resuming old political ties with former Yugoslavia, pray, without much hope, for a quick and lasting solution to the conflict and the resumption of normal economic ties. The war, with its violent and deliberate displacement of millions of people, has and is taking place in the ethnically mixed border lands of Croatia and Bosnia relatively distant from the Slovene border. Both Mr Kucan and Mr Drnovsek, who headed the old revolving Yugoslav state presidency for a year before negotiating the exodus of the federal army from Slovenia in July 1991, criticise the failure of the west to intervene more forcibly to stop at an early stage what Mr Kucan calls 'the war of aggression waged by Serbia.' Preventing the war in parts of former Yugoslavia destabilising Slovenia and scaring off tourists remains a top priority for the new republic. As elsewhere in the region, privatisation and other structural reforms are seen as laying the basis for the development of a self-confident middle class capable of ensuring that the democratic and economic reforms under way in Slovenia become irreversible. 