Shaken, thousands of people are crowding into earthquake survival classes. Entrepreneurs are hawking quake insurance, survival kits and gas-line safety gadgets. But the Midwest actually has had three of the most powerful earthquakes on this continent. In 1811 and 1812, along a 120-mile zig-zag formation called the New Madrid fault, a series of quakes ravaged the Midwest. Researchers estimate those earthquakes ranked stronger than 8 on the Richter Scale, which hadn't been invented yet. They were more than 10 times greater than the 7.1 quake that rocked California's Bay Area last October. The New Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid) fault still has 150 small, mostly unfelt, earthquakes a year. In the next 10 years, experts warn, the area has a 33% chance of a quake measuring 7.1. We're overdue for one in the 6s and low 7s, says David Stewart, an earthquake expert at Southeast Missouri State University. And Paragould, Ark., has held earthquake festivals with events like the Miss Faultless beauty contest. Iben Browning, a 72-year-old scientist, predicted October's Bay Area quake a week before it happened, say people who heard him speak to the Equipment Manufacturers Institute. 19, 1985, along a band of latitude that included Mexico City -- where a massive quake struck on that day. Since 1971, Mr. Browning says, he has picked the correct dates of four large earthquakes, two volcanoes -- and one day with both a volcano and an earthquake. The New Madrid area has a 50-50 chance of producing at least a 7 quake on Dec. At that time, a similar quake has a lesser chance of occurring on California's San Andreas or Hayward faults, according to Mr. Browning, and an 8.2 quake in Tokyo has a greater chance. No responsible scientist can predict an exact day for an earthquake, says Brian Mitchell, a quake expert at St. Louis University, echoing the majority opinion. But Mr. Browning shouldn't be written off so quickly, says Southeast Missouri State's Mr. Stewart, who recently spent four days with Mr. Browning. He has a methodology that can determine, plus or minus a window of a day or two, an enhanced probability of a volcano or an earthquake in certain latitudes, says Mr. Stewart. Insurance salespeople are peddling earthquake coverage to homeowners and businesses. Salespeople from a Memphis company pop up at survival seminars with a device (for $259 and up) that turns off gas lines when a quake hits. And entrepreneurs are marketing two kinds of earthquake T-shirts in Memphis. Robert Edwards, a Blytheville fireman who teaches seminars in earthquake survival, has become a hot property. It is 9 a.m. on a rainy Saturday, and 325 Osceolans, gripping legal pads and spiral notebooks, fill the high school auditorium for an all-day session on earthquake preparedness. 3. Some schools practice earthquake drills, while others sponsor cake sales to buy survival kits for classrooms, with items like blankets, flashlights and radios. Trying to calm the fear, the National Earthquake Prediction Evaluation Council, a panel of academic and government seismic experts, will review the Browning claim at a meeting in a few weeks. The group usually ignores claims that aren't scientifically documented (like the one by the California man who said his goldfish helped him predict quakes). That will kill more people than earthquakes. 