An unqualified mate was piloting the Exxon Valdez -- violating both Coast Guard regulations and company policy -- when the tanker crashed into rocks, unleashing the worst oil spill in U.S. history, Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday. Meanwhile, winds kicked up around the crippled ship, stirring fears that choppy waters could destabilize the Exxon Valdez and sweep the slick ashore. Frank Iarossi, president of Exxon Shipping, told reporters that Capt. Joseph Hazelwood was one flight below the bridge in his cabin when the Exxon Valdez hit the first jagged rock pinnacle about a mile outside shipping lanes. The ship then slid about two miles under full power and hit more underwater rocks, Iarossi said. Cousins, a three-year employee of Exxon, did not have the Coast Guard certification required to pilot through the sound but was qualified under other circumstances to steer the ship, Iarossi said. Puts Off Filing Charges We're not going to file any charges until we are done with our investigation, said Coast Guard spokesman Todd Nelson. The Coast Guard may seem slow and plodding at times, but if we file charges, we're going to make them stick, he added. Nelson said piloting a ship without proper certification is a civil, not criminal, violation, which ultimately could result in suspension or revocation of the captain's license. The Coast Guard served subpoenas Saturday on the captain, helmsman and third mate to ensure that they make themselves available to investigators. The Exxon Valdez spewed about 250,000 barrels of North Slope crude into the ice-blue waters. Another 1 million barrels remain aboard the damaged ship, but no new leakage has been reported. Rocks Charted He indicated that the rocks the ship hit were charted and well within range of the Exxon Valdez's navigational equipment. The agency is studying its legal options and may ask the Coast Guard to take over the cleanup from Exxon, she said. At Coast Guard offices here, Nelson said such a move was unlikely. The Coast Guard doesn't have tons and tons of its own equipment, and it would have to hire the same people Exxon has, Nelson said. RANKING THE EXXON VALDEZ SPILL 11 million gallons that have leaked so far from the Exxon Valdez are dwarfed by some of the record spills around the world: 