Peggy Say dashed forward and gave her brother a huge hug after he stepped down from the helicopter at the U.S. Air Force hospital in Wiesbaden.; Anderson appeared minutes later on a hospital balcony with Joseph Cicippio and Alann Steen, the other two American hostages freed this week.; After a daylong delay that U.N. officials attributed to snow-blocked roads, Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press, had appeared Wednesday before his colleagues at a press conference in Damascus, Syria, and said, You can't imagine how glad I am to see you. ; The 44-year-old journalist, who was abducted March 16, 1985, by the Islamic Jihad faction of Iranian-backed Lebanese Shiite Muslims, looked to be in good health and said he was sustained in his long ordeal by his companions in captivity, his religious faith and his stubbornness. ; You wake up every day. In his long captivity, Anderson had treasured a photo of Sulome that his kidnappers allowed him to receive.; Anderson was the ninth Western hostage to be freed since August. His release came after months of negotiations led by a special U.N. envoy, Giandomenico Picco, who dealt with Iranians, Israelis and the Lebanese kidnappers.; In Washington, President Bush, who called Anderson in Damascus to express the love and admiration that all Americans have for Terry, said Wednesday he joined Anderson's family and friends in their happiness for his return to freedom. ; The ordeal isn't over; But he said: While the American hostages have now been released, we cannot say the ordeal is over. The war is going on. ; Anderson said he made clear that it was the kidnappers' statement, not his, but I thought it was worthwhile to listen to what they had to say. ; The good news for the hostage in the statement was brief but meaningful: We're going to free our last captive, Terry Anderson, thus folding this page in the hostage file before glorious Christmas. ; What he missed; Some of the events Terry Anderson missed during his time in captivity:; (box)1985: Cruise ship Achille Lauro seized by Palestinians.; (box)1986: Space shuttle Challenger explodes 73 seconds into flight.; (box)1987: 37 sailors on USS Stark killed by Iraqi missile in Persian Gulf.; (box)1988: 270 killed when bomb destroys Pan Am jetliner over Scotland.; (box)1989: Powerful earthquake strikes Bay Area.; (box)1990: Reunification of Germany completed.; (box)1991: U.S. launches attacks in Iraq and Kuwait. 