One reason is that term limits would open up politics to many people now excluded from office by career incumbents. Most of the authors of Washington state's term limit are liberal Democrats who want to break up the old-boy network. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, the only American Indian in Congress, backed a term limit measure last year that restricted his own tenure. Today, former California Governor Jerry Brown says advocacy of term limits is a key element in his populist presidential campaign against a constipated political system. Last year, as head of the California Democratic Party he refused to sign a party slate mailer against term limits. He notes both groups opposed term limits in his home state; the California initiative included budget cuts that retired more than 700 legislative staffers. Other former Democratic governors who favor term limits include Vermont's Madeleine Kunin and Colorado's RichardLamm. While many prominent Democrats support term limits, party apparatchiks are dead set against them. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has quietly put out the word that it will blacklist political consultants who advise candidates to back term limits and has told pollsters not to ask term-limit questions. In Massachusetts, the state's Democratic attorney general and secretary of state both favor term limits. Hendrik Hertzberg, a former speechwriter for Jimmy Carter who edited the New Republic until last month, agrees term limits would mean a loss of some distinguished legislators. Such recent body-blows to Congress as Kitegate and the Clarence Thomas hearings have convinced some liberal media outlets to reevaluate term limits. The liberal Seattle Times, Washington state's largest newspaper, stunned its readers by endorsing term limits. Last month, the station made a highly unusual about-face and endorsed term limits for Congress: We're not going to get {leadership} till we have a massive infusion of new blood. Among Democratic Party activists, James Calaway of Texas is typical of those who now favor term limits. While Speaker Tom Foley reacts to term limits the way that Linus in the comic strip Peanuts would if his security blanket were taken away, some House Democrats think his concern that term limits would result in large GOP gains in Congress is a fantasy. People who say term limits are a Republican plot to oust incumbents should know that a majority of open seats are won by Democrats, says Rep. Indeed, the Democratic Party could actually be helped by term limits, according to former Oklahoma state legislator Cleta Mitchell, a self-described liberal feminist who works with the Denver-based term limit group Americans Back in Charge. But there are already signs that business lobbies, labor unions and other term limit opponents are relying more on convincing judges -- starting with Florida's heavily politicized state Supreme Court -- to overturn state term limits than on trying to convince voters to reject the idea. 