After seven long years, the US Congress this week passed its first significant gun control law since the assassinations of Mr Robert Kennedy and Rev Martin Luther King Jr in 1968. Advocates of tougher controls on guns were jubilant about their victory over stubborn resistance by Republican senators from western states such as Idaho and Alaska, who have long opposed any restriction on gun ownership in the US. They point to glaring failings in the federal government's policing of the 276,000 licensed gun dealers in the US as evidence of the Brady bill's likely ineffectiveness. Studies of state laws requiring some form of background check suggest, however, that at least some sales to convicted felons have been stopped, and some suspected criminals have been caught when they tried to buy a gun. But even the most ardent supporters of the Brady bill acknowledge that it will make no more than a dent in the estimated 7.5m legal sales each year of new or used firearms, let alone the approximately 200m guns in circulation; and will barely affect the more than 14,000 murders and 1,400 accidental deaths involving guns each year. Despite its uncertain effect, passage of the Brady bill is read by some as a sign that the tide has turned decisively in favour of gun control. Although Democratic Governor Jim Florio of New Jersey came close to victory in the gubernatorial race this month by striking a tougher stance on both guns and crime in general than his Republican challenger, Mrs Christine Todd Whitman, this was not enough. In Virginia, meanwhile, Ms Mary Sue Terry, the Democratic candidate for governor, relied in her campaign on gun control and was thrashed by Mr George Allen, her Republican opponent, who did not favour tighter curbs but promised to be tough on criminals by abolishing parole. Most members now favour some form of gun control, but the core membership opposes all restraints on the sale of firearms. Such beliefs have led the NRA to campaign against restrictions on machine guns, assault weapons and armour-piercing bullets. In the process they have lost touch with many of their members, who back gun control in general and specifically the Brady bill. First, left-wing Democrats have begun to champion gun control as a supplement to tough anti-crime measures, rather than an alternative; they have recaptured much of the 'tough on crime' high ground by backing boot camps for young delinquents, harsher sentences and stiffer restrictions on parole or habeas corpus appeals. Second, the NRA's insistence on combating any gun control, even that viewed as reasonable by a majority not just of the US population but of gun-owners, has driven away some former political and police supporters. According to a Gallup poll earlier this year, 57 per cent of people who said they had a gun in their house also favoured stricter laws on the sale of firearms. These converts to gun control, however, are a long way from believing that the answer to violent crime lies in more radical action, such as the proposal of Senator John Chafee, a Rhode Island Republican, for a complete ban on handguns. 