7 and rejected a Hodgman request to raise Keating's bail from $100,000 to $1 million.; As Mr. Neal has indicated, there is the possibility of some imminent action on the federal front, Hodgman said in arguing that Keating was now an increased flight risk.; Emotions ran high during the trial, which became a national window into the extravagances and duplicity that contributed to the collapse of the savings and loan industry during the freewheeling 1980s.; Civil lawsuits contend that after buying Lincoln in 1984, American Continental quickly and illegally began siphoning off federally insured deposits to fund a playground of lofty salaries and company-paid jet-setting for Keating, his family and top officers.; During the trial, bondholders jeered Keating as he passed them in court hallways. A comic swatted him with a powdered wig, shouting, This is for America. ; In addition to the action to recover bondholder losses, the Tucson suit includes a $2.7 billion racketeering suit by the Resolution Trust Corp., the federal agency that inherits failed thrifts.; Other actions include an effort by the Office of Thrift Supervision to recover $131 million allegedly looted from Lincoln by Keating and his cronies, and an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.; At the trial, defense attorney Neal gambled by calling no defense witnesses, saying prosecutors never showed Keating took part in or even knew about any deceptions of bond buyers at Lincoln's Southern California branches.; Neal told jurors an innocent verdict would rebuke the regulators Keating accuses of driving him into insolvency.; But Joseph Cotchett, the attorney for the bondholders in the civil suit, said the jurors sent another message instead.; It's a tribute to the system, because the Keatings of the world can buy a lot of people, including politicians. Thomas A. Burger, its former chief lending officer, received 12 years and was ordered to pay $6 million in restitution.; (box) ERNEST J. BADARACCO JR. -- The former president of the failed Elysian Federal Savings in Hoboken, N.J., was sentenced June 11 to 21 months in prison for fraud and ordered to pay $293,000 restitution.; (box) ROY WAYNE DAILEY -- The former owner of Conroe-based First Savings Association of East Texas was sentenced April 8 to 12 years in prison and ordered to pay $5 million in restitution. Dailey was convicted in December of misappropriation of funds, bank fraud and bank bribery.; (box) DONALD DIXON -- The former owner of Vernon Savings &amp; Loan Association in Texas was sentenced April 2 to five years in prison and ordered to repay $577,000 to the FDIC for bank fraud. Dixon was convicted in December of illegally using depositors' money to pay for a California beach house and prostitutes.; (box) WOODY F. LEMONS -- The former chairman of Vernon Savings &amp; Loan was sentenced April 5, 1990, to 30 years on charges including misapplication of funds, conspiracy and bank fraud, for soliciting a $9,000 kickback from a loan broker and receiving $212,000 in kickbacks from the broker, both in 1986.; (box) JANET FAYE McKINZIE -- An executive of the North American Savings and Loan of Santa Ana, Calif., she was sentenced July 20, 1990, to 20 years in prison. McKinzie was also ordered make restitution of almost $14 million looted from the collapsed thrift.; (box) BURTON BONGARD -- The former president of Home State Savings Bank of Ohio was sentenced on July 22, 1987, to 10 years for conspiracy and fraud.; (box) JEROME S. CARDIN -- A former part-owner of the now-defunct Old Court Savings and Loan Association of Baltimore, he was sentenced Jan. He was also fined $5,000.; (box) JEFFREY A. LEVITT -- The former president of Old Court Savings and Loan Association was sentenced July 2, 1986, to 30 years in prison for theft of $14.69 million from the thrift. 