Will Rogers III, skipper of the San Diego-based Vincennes, escaped unharmed Friday morning moments before a pipe bomb exploded under her van, igniting a fire that gutted her vehicle at a busy La Jolla intersection. Hours after the 7:40 a.m. explosion, the FBI took control of the investigation, suspecting that the bombing might be an act of domestic terrorism linked to the Vincennes' accidental downing of an Iranian civilian airliner in the Persian Gulf last July, killing 290. No Motive Yet No one claimed responsibility for the bombing, a federal law enforcement official said. However, a senior Defense Department official said that there was no evidence of a terrorist connection Friday, and some law enforcement officials described the bombing as amateurish. He said that no special security precautions had been undertaken for Rogers, crew members and their families after the Vincennes returned to San Diego. All 360 sailors assigned to the Vincennes were alerted by their commanders Friday morning of the bomb in the Rogerses' van and urged to take whatever precautions they deemed necessary, Huebler said. Police and Navy officials said Rogers and his wife telephoned their son, Bill Rogers, at an eastern university, where he is a student. After the bombing Friday, an FBI spokesman said the Rogerses' van was usually driven by Sharon Rogers, but two highly placed law enforcement sources told The Times that Will Rogers drove his wife's van to a doughnut shop without incident about an hour before the blast. A law enforcement official, who asked not to be identified, said Sharon Rogers told investigators that she pulled up behind three or four cars stopped at a red light at the intersection and then suddenly heard two popping sounds. One law enforcement source said several construction workers nearby reported that moments after the explosion, a red car quickly made a U-turn over the traffic median on Genesee and sped from the scene. Sharon Rogers, 50, was on her way to her job as a fourth-grade teacher at La Jolla Country Day School when the bomb went off. Sharon Rogers was dazed but walking under her own power, when the laborers reached her. Will Rogers arrived at the scene within a few minutes, and police took the couple to the San Diego Police Department's Northern Division headquarters. San Diego police and FBI agents rushed to the Rogerses' home on Sherlock Court, checking two other vehicles and the home with dogs specially trained to sniff for explosives. Two law enforcement sources said Will Rogers left the couple's home about 6:30 a.m. and drove in the van to a doughnut shop. He returned, drank coffee with his wife, and then Sharon Rogers, who usually drove the van, left in the vehicle, investigators said. When Sharon Rogers was interviewed, one law enforcement source said, she was nervous and shaken, but she did not immediately connect the explosion with any possible retaliation for her husband's role in shooting down the Iranian jetliner. The official also said that the van had been parked in the driveway overnight, but that neither the Rogerses nor any neighbors reported prowlers near the vehicle. He also said Sharon Rogers told investigators that her family had received no threats since the airplane was downed. Late Friday, the FBI declined comment on most aspects of the investigation, but at a press conference, the FBI's Hughes said, An explosive device exploded in the vehicle. However, two law enforcement sources said one or two pipe bombs had been placed on the transmission under the van. He said he and other investigators determined that the two initial loud bangs apparently came from one or two explosive devices, and that the apparatus was connected under the van's transmission. He noted that most of the van's damage resulted from the fire, which he said has led investigators to believe that either low-intensity explosives were planted on the vehicle or that only a small amount of high-intensity explosives were used. The Vincennes, a guided-missile cruiser based in San Diego, returned from its six-month Persian Gulf deployment last October. No Threats However, Navy spokesmen in San Diego said Friday that no threats had been made against Rogers, the Vincennes or any of its crew members since the ship returned to San Diego. The Vincennes and Rogers received some negative mail last July, shortly after the Iranian plane was shot down, a spokesman said. Since the Vincennes returned to San Diego, Rogers has been overseeing routine ship maintenance and training in preparation for its next deployment. 