A Los Angeles judge Friday refused to reduce the $5-million bail for Charles H. Keating Jr., saying the Phoenix businessman is a flight risk after being indicted on 42 counts of state securities fraud and other violations. Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner said Keating -- pursued by creditors, regulators and prosecutors for his role in the failure of Irvine-based Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan -- has significant reasons not to stay around. At the same time, Klausner reduced bail for three Keating co-defendants from the $1 million he imposed Tuesday when the indictment was unsealed against the former operators of American Continental Corp. and its former main subsidiary, Lincoln. Bail for Judy J. Wischer, 42, former American Continental president, was lowered to $200,000. Bail for Robin S. Symes, 37, and Ray C. Fidel, 32, both former Lincoln presidents, was cut to $100,000. All three posted bail late Friday and were expected to be released during the night. Keating had sought to have bail reduced to $500,000, an amount that could be paid by his family, Neal said. Ira Reiner, whose office has flip-flopped twice in its bail recommendations in the case, praised the decision not to reduce Keating's bail. The judge's decision came after 1 1/2 days of testimony and arguments in the first criminal case to be filed in connection with the collapses of Lincoln and Phoenix-based American Continental. Afterwards, Donald Smaltz, attorney for Symes, criticized Reiner and Klausner for their handling of the bail hearing. Bail is supposed to assure a defendant's appearance in court and must be within the means he could reasonably afford. Klausner also said he was troubled by the way the district attorney has equivocated on the bail issue. On Wednesday, prosecutors said they were willing to recommend a reduction in bail to $1 million for Keating and $50,000 for the others. Gen. John K. Van de Kamp to investigate Lincoln, said he was willing to let the defendants go without bail on Tuesday because he didn't want to face a difficult battle extraditing Keating from Arizona. After Klausner first ruled, Reiner said he then supported the bail set. While defense attorneys wouldn't say what they thought of the prosecutor's actions, other lawyers connected indirectly to the case scored Reiner for allegedly using the case and his changing views on Keating's bail to bolster his public image. Klausner said that of all the factors to be weighed in determining a proper bail, the seriousness of the alleged crimes and the risk of a defendant fleeing were the most important in this case. The alleged crimes caused the victims to lose nearly $1.2 million, hardly serious enough to warrant such high bails, they contended. 