A split, charred tree stump is a clue that lightning was to blame for a forest fire. "You eliminate all those causes, you're down to arson," said Dale Smallwood, a criminal investigator for Missouri's Mark Twain National Forest. He comes down to arson in most of his investigations _ and he and other forest officials believe the problem is often rooted in some regional traditions that are as hard to quell as flames. Arsonists set 172 of the 296 Mark Twain fires that have broken out so far this year, burning more than 9,000 acres, Smallwood said. A total of 14,200 acres of the forest, which covers 1.5 million acres mostly in southern Missouri, were burned during a spring fire season made more volatile by drought. On average, Smallwood estimates, 70 percent of the forest fires each year in Missouri are deliberately set. "It's probably 90 percent higher than the national average," said Ron McDonald, Mark Twain's fire control officer. As one of the Forest Service's 125 special law enforcement agents, Smallwood has spent most of the past 16 years investigating fires in the forests he loves. His military-neat office at the Forest Service headquarters in Rolla is decorated with game bird feathers, a picture of Smokey Bear and a glass-doored bookcase lined with reports and text books. The Forest Service has called on psychologists, sociologists and archaeologists to determine why fires are set. Psychologist John P. Shea in the 1940s conducted one of the first Forest Service studies of arson. "We had one case (in 1984) where two men went to Sunday school and after school they started a fire with their Sunday school literature," Smallwood said. "Sometimes you hear that someone is angry at the Forest Service because of some administrative action _ because we closed a road or disallowed something. McDonald, who oversees about 125 Mark Twain employees trained as firefighters, said forest fires cost $25 to $30 an acre to suppress. In the rare case of a conviction, the arsonist is likely to be put on probation or ordered to pay the costs of fighting the fire and replacing timber that was destroyed, Smallwood said. Last year, a judge ordered two arsonists to work weekends for the Forest Service. Beyond the cost in dollars of forest fires, there's risk to those who fight them. "We had an employee die of a heart attack fighting an arson fire," Smallwood said, referring to a 1976 blaze. 