In the view of Yugoslav diplomats, the normalization of relations between Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will certainly be a strenuous and long-term project. A signal that relations between Yugoslavia and Slovenia might be reconsidered came this time from the Slovene capital. It is also true that Slovenia does not accept Yugoslavia on the international scene. Yugoslav sources claim that Slovenia is becoming increasingly isolated because of its extreme policy toward Yugoslavia, so that this might be one of the reasons why it has decided to soften its attitudes toward Yugoslavia. After reporters remarked that this relatively negative attitude might negate the unofficial signal from Ljubljana, a Yugoslav diplomat said: We do not think that there is only one opinion in Slovenia about Yugoslavia. Slovenia is the former Yugoslav republic that made the greatest effort to harm the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The first signs of a change in the Slovene attitude toward Yugoslavia were noticed during the visit of Karolos Papoulias, the Greek foreign minister, and Vaclav Havel, the Czech president, to Slovenia, in November 1993. <H5> Diplomatic Pirouettes </H5> At that time the press carried statements made by Milan Kucan and Lojze Peterle that unquestionably represented a shift in policy toward Belgrade. Belgrade diplomats agree with this assessment and claim that the first announcement of possible contacts between Yugoslavia and Slovenia were made by arrangement with Germany and Austria. Single statements and diplomatic pirouettes are not enough to overcome the present differences, including the Slovene attitude toward Kosovo, the interruption of economic relations, the way Slovene independence was achieved by force, and diplomatic duels on the international scene. <H5> [Box, p 7] </H5> <H5> Jovanovic: Slovenia Must Excuse Itself </H5> In order to enter the process of normalization of relations with Slovenia, certain conditions must be fulfilled first, Vladislav Jovanovic, FRY minister of foreign affairs, said in a statement for POLITIKA, and added: First it is necessary for Slovenia to excuse itself for the rude and impertinent move it made a year ago in refusing the Yugoslav offer of recognizing Slovenia. It is further necessary that the anti-Serbian campaign that Slovenia has been spreading all over the world is ended and that it acknowledges that those who remained in Yugoslavia have the right to self- determination. Apart from that, Slovenia must stop challenging the continuity of Yugoslavia as a state. There are many situations that prove that Slovenia has a hostile attitude toward Yugoslavia. We are, of course, interested in normal relations between Slovenia and Yugoslavia, but some prerequisites have to be fulfilled, Jovanovic concluded his statement. 