Here is the text of President Bush's address to the people of Iraq, as released by the White House: I'm here today to explain to the people of Iraq why the United States and the world community has responded the way it has to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. We have no quarrel with the people of Iraq. Kuwait was the victim; Iraq, the aggressor. And the world met Iraq's invasion with a chorus of condemnation, unanimous resolutions in the United Nations. Twenty-seven states, rich and poor, Arab, Muslim, Asian and African, have answered the call of Saudi Arabia and free Kuwait and sent forces to the gulf region to defend against Iraq. I do not believe that you, the people of Iraq, want war. No one knows what Iraq might be today, what prosperity and peace you might enjoy had your leaders not plunged you into war. In fact, in the face of far superior force, the people of Kuwait are bravely resisting this occupation. Saddam Hussein tells you that this crisis is a struggle between Iraq and America. Saddam Hussein tells you the occupation of Kuwait will benefit the poorer nations of the world. In fact, the occupation of Kuwait is helping no one and is now hurting you, the Iraqi people, and countless others of the world's poor. Instead of acquiring new oil wells by annexing Kuwait, this misguided act of aggression will cost Iraq over $20 billion a year in lost oil revenues. Because of Iraq's aggression, hundreds of thousands of innocent foreign workers are fleeing Kuwait and Iraq. They are stranded on Iraq's borders, without shelter, without food, without medicine, with no way home. But even worse, others are being held hostage in Iraq and Kuwait. I do not want to add to the suffering of the people of Iraq. The United Nations has put binding sanctions in place, not to punish the Iraqi people, but as a peaceful means to convince your leadership to withdraw from Kuwait. When Iraq returns to the path of peace, when Iraqi troops withdraw from Kuwait, when that country's rightful government is restored, when all foreigners held against their will are released, then, and then alone will the world end the sanctions. Ultimately, Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait. When we stand with Kuwait against aggression, we stand for a principle well understood in the Arab world. If Iraq should become intoxicated by its power and move to overwhelm another Arab state, the Arabs would be right to deploy their armies to check it. Iraq must get out of Kuwait -- for the sake of principle, for the sake of peace and for the sake of the Iraqi people. 