Steger and Etienne enlisted scientists and explorers from the Soviet Union, China, Japan and Great Britain for a seven-month, 4,000-mile trip. Others have crossed Antarctica on snowmobiles and giant snow tractors, but this will be the first unmechanized attempt. The other members of the team are glaciologist Qin Dahe of China; Geoff Somers, who has spent 42 months in Antarctica with the British Antarctic Survey; and Keizo Funatsu of Japan, a former economist who turned to dog-sledding and adventure. Steger, who in the past has picked his own teams, says he is honored that the Soviet Union and China will be sending official representatives. Steger recalled that when he asked if Boyarsky spoke English, a Soviet official replied: "In one year, he will speak English very well." "A real interesting diplomatic challenge," Steger called it. The USSR also plans to send a military cargo plane to pick up the team from its rendezvous at Steger's Minnesota camp; the U.S. State Department, while not officially sanctioning the trek, is expected to let the plane land. After refueling in Cuba, the team will fly to the Great Wall Base, about 600 miles south of the tip of South America. There's nothing to map," Steger said. "We want the world to know much, much more about Antarctica after our expedition than it did before we set out," Steger said. Antarctica's 5.4 million square miles is more than China and India combined. Some want to see the continent cut into pie-shaped wedges, but Steger wants the people of the world to demand that it be protected, intact. Planetary warming of just a few degrees could melt the polar ice caps, raising sea level and flooding coastal areas, but Steger said it's simplistic to worry about submerged cities. With 85 percent of the planet's fresh water stored in the snow and ice of Antarctica, a thaw would reduce the salinity of the oceans, change ocean currents and wreak havoc with weather patterns. The other environmental nightmare awakening interest in Antarctica is the discovery of a giant hole in the ozone layer directly over the continent. Scientists predict continued ozone depletion will increase skin cancer, but such thinking is "myopic," Steger said. These ominous changes are most apparent in Antarctica, making it "like a canary in a mine," Steger said. The team will be under the ozone hole for about 40 days and 500 miles as they cross a 13,000-foot high plateau known as the Area of Inaccessibility. The team will carry a monitor and Boyarsky will record ozone levels at regular intervals, the first cross-section of ozone across the continent. Steger admits they won't attempt "pure science" but he hopes the findings will contribute to the knowledge of this frontier. 