Prolonged drought, bark beetles and a rare fungus are drying out and killing brush and trees that surround many Southern California neighborhoods, creating the potential for one of the worst wildfire seasons in decades, fire officials warned Monday. A map released Monday by the Los Angeles County Fire Department showed that some of the most vulnerable fire zones can be found this summer in chaparral-covered foothill and mountain-canyon slopes beside densely developed residential districts of Los Angeles and its suburbs. The map was released as the state Department of Forestry officially opened the region's 1990 fire season, which means its firefighting crews have been placed on higher alert and various fire prevention regulations are now in effect. The last really good rainfall was back in '82-83, so our brush really hasn't recuperated in seven years, said Gordon Rowley, a fire management specialist with the U.S. Forest Service. In foothill districts closer to Los Angeles, a fungus that preys upon drought-weakened brush has killed as much as 60% of the chaparral in some portions of the Santa Monica and San Gabriel mountains. Officials said large patches of this dead and dying brush now mottle the hillsides, ready to burst into flame at the slightest spark. Scott Franklin, a vegetation management officer with the county Fire Department, said the dead trees and dry brush combine to form a fuel source so volatile that any ignition now could become a major fire. Fire officials generally have responded to the threat with increased training and requests for federal money to pay for extra firefighting personnel. The county Fire Department map shows that the most threatened residential areas include a number of hillside and canyon communities within the city of Los Angeles, including parts of Baldwin Hills, Hollywood, the Los Feliz district, Tarzana, Encino, Sherman Oaks, Sunland and Sylmar. Doug Allen, a fire prevention officer with the state Division of Forestry, said residents should clear tall grass, brush, trash, firewood and other combustibles at least 30 feet from any building. FIRE STRESS AREAS Map shows largely undeveloped land where dead brush and a lack of leaf moisture in live brush create high fire hazards. Fire officials say these are areas where blazes can start and expand rapidly, spreading from open land to homes and other structures. What You Can Do Fire officials have a number of recommendations for residents of areas where the wildfire danger is high: Clear brush and grass a minimum of 30 feet away from any buildings. 