St. Martin's, 306 pp., $18.95; CHARLIE Francis, testifying in 1988 in Toronto at a federal inquiry about the use of performance-enhancing drugs in sports, seemed a mad scientist, something on the order of Dr. Frankenstein. Francis, the Canadian national sprint coach, knew the polysyllabic names and complex characteristics of steroids -- furazabol, stanozolol, Dianabol -- as if they were members of his family. 24, 1988, Francis' most famous pupil, Ben Johnson, who immigrated to Toronto from Jamaica as a scrawny 14-year-old, ran 100 meters in 9.79 seconds at the Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. The time was a world record and gave Johnson the gold medal, ahead of the defending champion, U.S. star Carl Lewis.; But the Francis system, like all systems, was not foolproof. About 42 hours after my life's greatest moment, Francis writes on the first page of his confessional, Speed Trap, his nightmare began. ; Johnson, the world's fastest man, had tested positive for illegal steroid use. And because of that testimony, we have Speed Trap, an elaboration of what Francis said at the inquiry and a history of his remarkable path through the world of track and field.; He argues, essentially, that to be a world-class sprinter, you must use steroids -- he makes this argument even as Johnson attempts a comeback for the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, without them.; Steroids do not make a runner run faster, Francis explains, but they enable a runner to train harder. By encouraging his athletes to use steroids -- and Francis maintains that they all wanted to do so and knew about steroids before the coach brought the subject up -- Francis argues that he is simply helping to create a level playing field.; We learn that the use of performance-enhancing drugs is nothing new in the world of sports -- that cocaine and arsenic and codeine were used by athletes in the 1896 Olympic Games. That's one of Francis' theories for why Johnson got caught.; But, Francis says, there is no logical reason for Johnson to have been caught. Francis offers theories for the positive test result -- free-lancing, sabotage, a screw-up by the team doctor -- but there is no clear answer.; For all its candor, answers and revelations are not forthcoming in Speed Trap. Francis would have us believe that without steroids, Johnson cannot be the fastest. (Johnson disagrees.); At the end of Speed Trap, Francis says that steroids cannot be simply banned -- their use is too prevalent, they can be disguised too easily and they work too well. We ceased being natural ages ago, the moment we stopped running barefoot on dirt paths, Francis writes. It is a formidable challenge to distinguish between nature and artifice, a task I would leave to the philosophers. ; But Speed Trap left me wishing Francis had at least tried his hand at philosophy. 