Out of the horn of Africa has emerged the most devastating and dominant group of marathon runners the world has seen. Or at least since the last time Ethiopia ventured from its athletic isolation and won three consecutive Olympic gold medals, putting its indelible stamp on the marathon. Now it is Abebe Mekonnen, who was born the year Bikila won the 1964 Olympic Marathon in Tokyo and a nation named its baby boys after its hero. Mekonnen, a police lieutenant from Addis Ababa, made a furious rush with a mile to go, passing Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania and winning Monday's Boston Marathon in 2 hours 9 minutes 6 seconds. Kristiansen, the women's marathon world record-holder, started fast but slowed markedly on a hot day. With temperatures in the high 60s during the Patriot's Day race, it was about 20 degrees warmer than it was Sunday and all of last week. Joan Benoit Samuelson, who set a world record on this course in 1983, was beset with physical problems that altered her stride at 11 miles, and she finished ninth among the women in 2:37:52. It was the worst marathon performance of her career. It also was the first time Kristiansen had beaten Samuelson in a marathon. In an emotional news conference afterward, Samuelson, who won the first women's Olympic marathon in 1984 at Los Angeles, tearfully conceded that she might have run her last marathon for some time. But the story of Monday's 93rd Boston race was Mekonnen and his nation of 42 million, which has reemerged as a force to be reckoned with in marathon running. In two days, Ethiopian runners have won three major marathons. Dinsamo holds the world record of 2:06:50, set last year on the same course. Also on Sunday, in the World Cup Marathon at Milan, Ethiopians finished 1-2. Nearly a dozen Ethiopian runners have been deployed around the world in this hectic two-week period of spring marathons. And still another, Wodajo Bulti, who has run 2:08:44, is one of the favorites in the London Marathon next Sunday. Ethiopia's legacy to the world in the last decade has been one of drought, famine and ethnic civil war. Had they not boycotted, at least three Ethiopian runners would have been among the favorites in the men's marathon at Seoul. One of the marathon's most enduring figures was Bikila, who won the marathon gold medal in 1960 and 1964. Ethiopia also took the marathon gold in 1968, when Mamo Wolde, 36, won at altitude in Mexico City. It was the first time since 1963 that an Ethiopian had run at Boston and Mekonnen, 24, made the most of it. He was among the pack of four African runners that led the 6,418 entrants race for 15 miles. At about mile 16, Mekonnen and Ikangaa took off, running at first side by side, then with Ikangaa holding a slight lead. And they ran not as strangers, because Mekonnen had beaten Ikangaa in winning last year's Tokyo Marathon. The pace got the best of Saimon Robert Haali of Tanzania, who led the race for five miles. For the first few miles, before the heat, Kristiansen was running at a 2:17 pace. Samuelson held on to second place and even ran comfortably until about 11 miles, when she came undone. Samuelson, who had knee surgery in February, continued to fade as her stride faltered and was beaten by three U.S. runners. It had been at least eight years since Samuelson was beaten in the marathon by an American. Samuelson, who holds the U.S. marathon record, said she will significantly decrease her training mileage and probably run shorter races. THEY'VE GOT A LOCK ON THE MARATHON How Ethiopia's marathoners have fared the last two days: 