More than 30 years ago, Life magazine took a look at the burgeoning little desert town of Las Vegas and wondered if it wasn't overbuilt. The year was 1955 and five new resort hotels had just opened, prompting the magazine to question where they would get people to fill them. Las Vegas has grown from a dusty town of a few resorts into a booming metropolis of more than 600,000 people, with nearly 60,000 hotel and motel rooms to accomodate tourists. "There is still a tremendous amount of demand out there that hasn't been satisified," said Rossi Ralenkotter, director of marketing for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. Nearly 20,000 new hotel rooms either are under construction or awaiting groundbreaking, as resorts compete to add rooms they hope will bring in even more tourists and gamblers in the near future. Visitor volume nearly has doubled in the last 12 years, with an estimated 17 million tourists each expected to spend an average of 2-3 days in Las Vegas during 1988. "We're penetrating markets we've never penetrated before," said Dave Verbon, publicity director at the Riviera Hotel. Already boasting the world's two largest resort hotels, Las Vegas soon will have five hotel-casinos with more than 3,000 rooms apiece. Two resorts _ the Riviera and the Flamingo Hilton _ are about to begin work on expansions that will bring them to more than 4,000 rooms apiece. "We think there are enough potential customers to support these huge hotels." When finished sometime late next year, the $550 million resort will have 3,200 guest rooms set in a watery tropical setting that hotel officials claim will be like nothing Las Vegas has ever seen. Part of the Las Vegas lure also comes from room rates that average $45 a night, far below the $100 or more charged by non-gaming hotels in other cities. The city's hotels in the past four to five years have begun exploiting the vast middle-class and tourism markets they once eschewed in favor of attracting a handful of high-rolling gamblers. 