The welfare state, the glue that binds the social fabric of the world's advanced capitalist economies, is coming unstuck. The immediate cause is its increasing cost at a time when budget deficits burden most of the 24 member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Rising welfare spending has been a significant factor in the average increase in net state borrowing of 3 percentage points of GDP across the OECD between 1989 and 1992. In the longer term, there are fears that the cost of the welfare state could become insupportable as populations age over the next 50 years. While short-term measures may ease the immediate budgetary pressures, more fundamental reforms will be needed if the welfare state is not to undermine the economic performance that has underpinned its enormous expansion since the second world war. Reform of national welfare systems to bring costs under control is now on the political agenda throughout the OECD, as countries struggle to rein in government spending. The biggest element in this growth has been the cost of pensions, healthcare, unemployment benefits and family support. The largest single budget item in most welfare states is the cost of publicly provided pensions. The maturing of the welfare state is also a significant factor in the doubling of health expenditure since 1960. Rising unemployment has added to the cost of the welfare state in both unemployment benefits and general family support for low-income families. Most OECD countries have recognised the need to curb growth in these main areas of welfare spending during the 1980s, and have introduced policies to tackle the underlying causes. Moves are afoot in countries such as Germany and Italy to raise the pension age. Although there are considerable differences between national health systems, healthcare reforms in countries such as the UK and the Netherlands are increasingly converging on models that use competition and price incentives to control costs. Some countries have succeeded in stabilising their welfare costs by measures such as these. But what most concerns those responsible for public finances is the strength of underlying pressures on welfare spending that will push costs upwards in the future. The strain that this will put on the welfare state can best be seen by relating it to expected trends in the number of people of working age. Other changes in social structure are also pushing up the demands on the welfare state. Continuing rises in the base level of unemployment would further undermine countries' ability to pay for their welfare states. Where the cost of welfare is jointly funded by employers - as in Germany - higher contributions are also increasingly resisted by business, which fears the consequences for international competitiveness of higher costs. In a global economy, no country can long afford to burden business with higher welfare costs than its neighbours. An alternative response to cost pressures would be further increases in borrowing to fund the welfare state. Without either tax rises or cuts in welfare budgets, current welfare spending plans could increase debt ratios on average by 90 percentage points over the next 40 years, according to one OECD study. This is why the OECD's half-yearly Economic Outlook repeatedly stresses the importance of controlling welfare spending in improving economic performance. The OECD's immediate priorities for reform include charges for the use of some welfare services and greater competition to increase the efficiency of those services. Tackling these longer-term pressures will require more than tinkering with charges and efficiency drives in welfare services. They could rise to cover a much larger part of the costs of welfare services. And the demands put on the welfare state might be eased by encouraging more private provision of pensions and healthcare. Measures such as these would fundamentally change the nature of the welfare state, however. The welfare state may have effectively bound societies together through the ups and downs of the economic cycle for the past 40 years. But a new glue will be needed over the next 50 years if advanced economies are to pass beyond the welfare state. This is the first in a series of articles analysing the pressures on the welfare state across the world, and examining policy options for relieving the strain 