Consuelo and Abuelita aren't actual people, but their story nevertheless is played over and over again among the more than 3 million Latinos in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, health officials say. The reason is diabetes, a silent killer that afflicts one in eight Latino adults. Nationwide, it is estimated that there are more than 2 million Latinos who already have diabetes, many of them undiagnosed. That is why the American Diabetes Assn. and other health education groups in the Los Angeles area and California have begun a major push to educate Latinos about diabetes. We need to get into the communities and start teaching the kids and the adolescents and the parents to make some changes in their habits, said Dr. Jaime Davidson, a Dallas physician who has spearheaded the diabetes association's Latino education efforts. If you have already a predisposed group of people, such as the Latinos, you get more obesity and you get more diabetes. Latinos are more than twice as likely to get diabetes than are Anglos, and incidence of the disease increases with age. In one survey done in San Antonio, a third of the Latinos between the ages of 55 and 65 had diabetes, Davidson said. In addition, Latino diets can be rich in high-calorie fried foods that promote obesity and increase the chance of getting diabetes. But, because it progresses slowly, Type II diabetes can go undiagnosed for years, allowing complications such as kidney failure, heart disease, blindness and the need for amputation of a foot or toe. Latinos, who often have less access to regular health care than Anglos, are more likely to go undiagnosed, Matkin said. In some states like California or Texas, if nothing is done we're going to pay so much money for health care for people of Latino origin that it may become prohibitive. The number of Latino diabetics in the United States will nearly quadruple by the year 2000 to 8 million, according to projections by Eli Lilly Co. Caring for them will cost more than $10 billion a year, even if the disease has no complications, the company projects. For instance, the fact that Type II diabetes frequently shows up in women during or shortly after pregnancy gives health educators an ideal chance to influence an entire Latino family's eating habits, said Dr. Martin Montoro, co-director of the diabetes and pregnancy service at Los Angeles County-USC Medical Center. Any Latino woman whose child was born at 9 pounds or larger should consider herself at risk of diabetes and alter her diet, Davidson said. Other barriers to Latinos getting care for diabetes are more subtle, doctors interested in the issue say. Chief among these is that the Latino patient is less likely to volunteer information or to notice early diabetes symptoms than the Anglo patient, said Dr. Aliza Lifshitz, a board member of the California Hispanic American Medical Assn. Davidson said he is confident that Latinos will respond to education efforts on diabetes. DIABETES COMPLICATIONS According to the American Diabetes Assn., in the United States every year: * 150,000 people die of diabetes and its complications * 5,000 people go blind because of diabetes * 10% of all cases of kidney disease necessitating dialysis were caused by diabetes * 45% of all non-traumatic amputations of the leg and foot were caused by diabetes * Heart disease is 2 to 4 times more likely in people with diabetes 