Michael Milken, the Drexel Burnham Lambert junk bond wizard in Beverly Hills who revolutionized U.S. corporate finance and raised funds for dozens of corporate raids, was indicted Wednesday on federal racketeering, insider trading and other securities fraud counts. The long-expected indictment also named Milken's brother, Lowell Milken, and a former Drexel trader, Bruce L. Newberg. If convicted on the racketeering charges, the three could face an astronomical amount in financial penalties: The indictment asks that they forfeit a total of $1.85 billion, representing their salaries, other compensation and their share of Drexel profits, all earned in what the government charges was a continuing criminal enterprise operated at the New York-based investment banking firm. The indictment apparently marks the end of Milken's 20-year career at the firm that his junk bond operation transformed from a second-rank investment bank to one of the powerhouses on Wall Street. Immediately after the 98-count indictment was returned by a federal grand jury, Drexel said that Milken, 42, and his brother, 40, had requested and been granted leaves of absence. The charges filed Wednesday mean that Newberg is now facing two separate racketeering indictments. He is also named as a defendant in an indictment returned last July relating to Princeton/Newport Partners, a small investment firm that did business with Drexel. The charges against him in the two indictments appear to cover the same general chain of events. Sources at the firm said the indictment of Michael Milken probably would clear the way for Drexel to swiftly settle civil charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 110-page indictment returned Wednesday appears to closely follow the civil charges contained in an SEC lawsuit filed in September against Drexel and the Milkens. The indictment accuses Michael Milken of a prolonged pattern of insider trading, stock market manipulation and defrauding clients. One involves transactions with former stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky, who pleaded guilty to a single criminal charge and gave prosecutors the information that touched off the Drexel investigation. The second broad area involves transactions with Princeton/Newport Partners, in which Drexel and Milken allegedly helped Princeton/Newport carry out tax fraud through sham securities trades with Drexel. Among other charges, the indictment alleges that Drexel used Princeton/Newport to illegally manipulate the price of COMB Co. securities in 1985. The indictment notes that Milken received $1.1 billion in direct compensation from Drexel from 1984 through 1987, as well as millions in other forms of compensation, and that he is Drexel's largest individual stockholder, owning about 6% of the firm. The indictment says that, during those years, Milken's personal compensation amounted to between 28% and 44% of the junk bond department's gross revenues. Drexel's tentative settlement of the six criminal charges pending against the firm calls for it to withhold nearly all of Michael Milken's compensation from 1988, as well as about $13 million owed to Lowell Milken. Liman said: The charges against Mr. Milken are essentially a repetition of the accusations made by Ivan Boesky and others as they bargained for leniency or immunity from prosecution. Lowell Milken said that the proof will show that I had virtually no contacts with Ivan Boesky, and that I had little, if anything, to do with the events the prosecutors misrepresent in order to construct their charges. He added that I have been thrown into this indictment because of a fact in which I take great pride -- I am Michael Milken's brother. The second RICO indictment of Mr. Newberg, containing essentially the same charges as those in the first indictment, is a total perversion of the RICO statute, the lawyers said. 