Judge Robert Bork is the most qualified American alive to serve on the Supreme Court. Legal resumes get no better than Judge Bork's. After a stint as a law partner in Washington, he was approved unanimously as an appeals judge on the District of Columbia Circuit. Many federal judges look to his 1984 lecture on Tradition and Morality in Constitutional Law as a guide to approaching constitutional issues. Lloyd Cutler, counsel to President Carter, supports Judge Bork as a jurist who believes that judges should interpret the Constitution and the laws according to neutral principles, without reference to their personal views as to desirable social or legislative policy. Despite his pre-eminent qualifications, in the last few weeks an awful fury has been unleashed against Judge Bork, centered on the canard that he is somehow outside the legal mainstream. Judge Bork is the leading proponent of judicial restraint. This doctrine is nothing more radical than the assumption of our constitutional democracy that judges must be the least dangerous branch. That judges must not concoct new rights in order either to further their own political preferences or to extend their power over the other branches. To the hurrahs of many liberals, judges busily discover new rights in constitutional penumbra. One case where Judge Bork ruled for a labor union against a federal agency was classified by critics as pro-business because unions are in the business of representing workers. The critics chased themselves into the corner of results-based evaluation of prospective judges by drawing the logical conclusion of judicial activism. Law is just politics, judges just politicians in robes. As the Justice Department says, they view courts as simply another political playing field for competing special interests with judges ranked the same way they rank politicians: according to the number of times they deliver results desired by a particular special interest to further a political agenda. The campaign against Judge Bork is shrill, mean and anti-intellectualan assault on the notion of law itself. 