A colossal tunneling machine is boring beneath the English Channel from the white cliffs of Dover, pursuing a dream born in Napoleon's time that is coming true at last. Another is digging from the French coast in what the tunnel builders call the largest civil engineering project now under way in the world. The 31-mile tunnel, 24 miles of it underwater, will cut the London-Paris journey from six hours to three, as fast as a scheduled airline. Tunneling speed at the Dover end is less than 15 feet an hour and the machine boring from the geologically more complex French end moves even slower, which is why the tunnel will not open until 1993. For continental Europeans, accustomed to long-distance rail travel, the tunnel is but a small spur on a vast network stretching to Moscow and beyond. "People still question whether the tunnel will be complete in May 1993 and that's ridiculous," says Kathy Watson, co-author of a book on the project. State-owned British Rail will not commit itself to building a high-speed link from London to the tunnel in time to make the three-hour journey a reality in 1993. Eurotunnel, the Anglo-French consortium that will own the tunnel, is urging British Rail to speed its plans. Critics say the tangle of commuter lines in southeast England, so obsolete that trains can be delayed by a sudden fall of autumn leaves, will delay tunnel traffic. British stations, bridges and tunnels are not built for the tall loads commonly carried across the channel. Digging began in 1882 but was halted by British fears of French invasion through the tunnel. With trade barriers among the 12 EEC countries set to fall in 1992, Colin Kirkland, technical director of Eurotunnel's on the British side, says the tunnel will be completed this time. Eurotunnel ordered a management shakeup and threatened Trans-Manche Link, the consortium of 10 British and French engineering companies building the tunnel, with penalties of $25 million if the diggers did not pass the three-mile mark by Nov. The tunnel, 80-130 feet below the seabed, was 2 miles into the channel from this end Oct. At its peak, the project will employ about 11,000 workers and 11 tunneling machines. Cars and trucks will drive onto the shuttle trains and be able to stay in their vehicles or stroll about during the 35-minute tunnel passage. 