While the views of President Bush's first Supreme Court nominee, David Souter, were virtually unknown before his confirmation, the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas has boldly articulated his vision of constitutional law, both as a judge -- he now sits on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the nation's second-highest bench -- and, before that, as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for eight years. Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says, not what he wants it to say, Mr. Thomas told me. And these are people looking to me, to the judge, to figure out what's just, to correctly apply the law. Many of Mr. Thomas's critics have taken his unconcealed admiration for Ronald Reagan, his former boss, and Robert Bork, his predecessor on the D.C. Circuit as evidence that Mr. Thomas shares their philosophy of jurisprudence. Writing in the Howard Law Journal in 1987, Mr. Thomas argued for what he called a natural law or higher law mode of judging, in which the judge examines not only the text of the Constitution or statute but also the moral principles underlying the American form of government. Mr. Thomas maintains, with support from Abraham Lincoln and abolitionist Frederick Douglass, that the Constitution must be read in the context of the principle of equality inherent in the Declaration of Independence. In a powerful speech Mr. Thomas gave on Martin Luther King Day three years ago, he defended certain forms of civil disobedience. King often quoted Thomas Aquinas's statement, An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law. Part of King's legacy, for Mr. Thomas, is his reflection on the close connection between law and morality. Mr. Thomas is likely to be a very different kind of judge from the man he is replacing. When reminded of Thurgood Marshall's comment that he could not wholeheartedly celebrate the bicentennial of the American founding because the Constitution permitted slavery, Mr. Thomas shook his head. Mr. Thomas's life is a remarkable story. In the summer of 1955, Clarence Thomas and his brother went to live with their maternal grandparents, who owned an ice delivery and fuel oil business. In 1987 he told the Atlantic, When the civil rights people indict me, the man they are indicting is that man. At home the Thomas boys worked six hours a day in addition to school: raising the chickens, pigs and cows; cleaning the house and the yard; painting, roofing, plumbing and fixing; maintaining the oil trucks and making deliveries. He went on to Yale Law School, where he worked summers at New Haven Legal Assistance, continuing what he calls my political consciousness raising. At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration, and in 1981 he was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education. Thomas came in, and he rejected all that, remarks William Robinson, dean of the District of Columbia School of Law. Mr. Thomas had his skirmishes with the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, an umbrella group instrumental in defeating the Bork nomination, and he made a dangerous enemy in the American Association of Retired Persons, which accused him of letting legal protections for the elderly lapse. The reason for the smooth passage, EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench) thinks, is that Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition. Can Clarence Thomas be confirmed to the Supreme Court? Even liberal judges will go on record praising Mr. Thomas. If I or a member of my family were in trouble, he is the kind of person I'd like to appear before, Judge Damon Keith, a Carter appointee on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Detroit said in an interview. Dean Robinson added, People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think, but Clarence is his own man. While at the EEOC, Mr. Thomas gave speeches accusing the Republican Party of blatant indifference toward black voters, and chastised Ronald Reagan in particular for letting Bob Jones University get away with racial discrimination, and for foot dragging on the Voting Rights Act extension. Mr. Thomas and his wife Virginia live in Northern Virginia with Jamal, Mr. Thomas's son from a previous marriage. 