Robert Heron Bork does not dwell on past disappointments. In fact, he sees himself having a bigger impact on the law from the sidelines than he would have had from the bench. One reason why is that Robert Bork, former Marine, former practicing lawyer, former Yale professor of law, former solicitor general, former professor at Yale again, former judge of the U.S. Circuit of Appeals, is now a best-selling writer. To his surprise, "The Tempting of America, The Political Seduction Of The Law," has been on the best-seller list for more than 10 weeks, and there are more than 190,000 copies in print. Bork was nominated for the Supreme Court in July 1987 and four months later the Democrat-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee, after an often vitriolic debate, found him unfit for the job. In the political undercurrent it was also remembered that Bork as solicitor general dismissed special prosecutor Archibald Cox during the Saturday Night Massacre in the Nixon administration. He recalls the impact of a book he wrote a dozen years ago on antitrust law. "A lot of people were good enough to say it had a great influence on moving antitrust laws from where they were to where they are now." "I hope in the same way to have some effect with this one," he says, pointing out the antitrust book had a greater impact than a few opinions he might have handed down from the bench. "I think this book has the chance to have more impact. Bork has plans for perhaps two more books, one in more academic detail on constitutional law aimed at law schools, and another on the relationship of law and the culture. He will hit the lecture circuit this spring and fall and will teach a constitutional law course next year at George Mason University. "Popular culture as far as I'm concerned has gone straight downhill," Bork says. During the hearings, Bork was astonished to learn that a radio reporter had gone to the video store he frequents and obtained a list of all of the tapes he had rented. He was halfway down the slope, he says, "when the muscles began to flutter and that's not very good because you have to get down the rest of the mountain." Bork enjoys the atmosphere at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative think tank that has become his small university. Bork, who abhored grading papers when he taught, says with a self-satisfied grin, "It's a very good faculty, with no blue books." "Not mine," says Bork. 