The Northwest Airlines jet that crashed Sunday in Detroit, killing at least 154 people, was involved in two incidents of engine failure in the past two years. MD-82 jet made emergency landings in 1985 and 1986 following the loss of power in one of its two engines. Though federal investigators were looking into a number of possible causes for the crash, which occurred shortly after takeoff, engine failure appeared to be a likely culprit. According to Associated Press reports, some witnesses to the crash, including an air traffic controller, said they saw blue flame coming from one of the jetliner's engines just before it hit the ground and exploded into a fireball. In Detroit, federal crash inspectors and representatives of United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit, the engine maker, arrived at the accident scene. The MD-82 jet, which has a good safety record, is designed to be able to take off and land even if one engine fails. The JT8D-219 engines used on the jet have been the subject of some concern among federal safety officals. In April, the National Transportation Safety Board urged the FAA to conduct a safety investigation of the 200 series of JT8D engines after some dangerous in-flight engine failures. The board made the recommendation after a March 23 incident in which an American Airlines MD-82 plane approaching the Minneapolis airport experienced an engine surge and loss of power. The engine, a JT8D-217A, was shut down, and the plane landed without further trouble. The board recommended that the FAA order inspections of the JT8D engines to detect any pin fractures and to replace existing ones with improved pins. The board said similar incidents involved Pacific Southwest Airlines and Muse Airlines. The FAA, in a May 29 response, told the board it essentially agreed with its recommendations and would take steps to require inspections of the engine and replacement of parts where necessary. In its April report, the National Transportation Safety Board warned that many of the 330 MD-80 series airplanes operated by 12 U.S. and 14 foreign airlines world-wide are potential candidates for engine failure. More than 900 of the engines have been manufactured, according to the board. Thomas Haueter, of the safety recommendations staff of the safety agency, said that the board hadn't put out an emergency recommendation for immediate replacement of the pins because it was unclear if the problems that had occurred were merely isolated incidents or reflected system problems. FAA officials at the crash scene wouldn't speculate on the reasons for the crash or comment on the plane's engines. John Lauber, one of five members of the National Transportation Safety Board, said at a news conference at a hotel near the airport last night that there was no evidence at this point that either engine exploded or caught fire during flight. A Northwest spokesman said the engines involved in those two incidents had since been replaced by other JT8D-200 series engines. Then they saw a blue flash from the left engine, Mr. Leyden said. FAA records show that besides those incidents that involved the plane that crashed, problems with the turbine sections of JT8D-200 series engines occurred on three Republic flights in the past four years. In one such incident, in September 1983, falling debris from an engine caused fire damage to several homes around John Wayne International Airport in Orange County, Calif. In another incident, at the Detroit airport in October 1985, an engine on an MD-82 popped and began to unspool on takeoff. Later inspection revealed extensive turbine damage to the engine, the FAA report said. An FAA official said all jetliners, in order to be certified, must be capable of completing their takeoff ascent even if one engine fails, provided the aircraft is within prescribed weight limits. Sunday's crash was the first time in 24 years that passengers were killed in an accident involving a Northwest plane. 