With some people having booked trips as long as three years in advance, airline seats, rental cars and hotel reservations range from difficult to impossible to get, travel agents and others report.; The closer you get to the event, the less there is available, said Paul Kloetzel, president of O'Brien Travel Service in San Jose. There is a certain element of traveler out there (and) there's an awful lot of those people. ; The eclipse will be seen from Hawaii to central Brazil. The eclipse will last the longest -- six minutes and 58 seconds -- at the center of the shadow in the town of Tuxpan, on Mexico's west coast. In the Bay Area, the moon will cover about 55 percent of the sun's surface.; Among fans of the heavens, a solar eclipse inspires awe, fascination and grandeur. Firm estimates aren't available, but blotted-out-sun watchers are expected to number more than 100,000 -- perhaps 50,000 to 70,000 in Hawaii and an equal number in Baja.; The effect of it -- the view of seeing the sun disappear little by little and then actually having the (blue) sky disappear and having the birds stop singing -- it's miraculous, said Irving Hochman, a member of the San Francisco Amateur Astronomers. It really is the most spectacular natural phenomenon possible. ; Bob Bruynesteyn, head of the San Mateo Astronomical Society, puts it succinctly: Not too many people have stood in the shadow of the moon. ; It's romantic images like these that are inspiring a last-minute surge of would-be eclipse-watchers, travel agents say.; Pamela and Daniel Dei Rossi of Campbell were among those scramblers. Learning of the eclipse only a month ago, they began calling travel agents. She called a travel agent who had taken a class with West Valley College astronomy instructor Tom Bullock. We had given up. ; Though travel arrangements are now tough to come by, some opportunities remain.; One is to go by the back door.; Hawaii and Baja are the prime spots, because -- statistically at least -- they offer the best chance of cloudless skies. Airline ticket availability is reported spotty for the resorts but still available for other destinations.; Another possibility is to search around for groups making the trip that have had late cancellations, as the Dei Rossis did.; What probably won't work is the overland route to Baja. With the eclipse, there's concern the overbooking could be particularly bad, especially on inter-island flights in Hawaii. 