That should be the starting signal for a recovery in the property market in Kent and north eastern France. At the moment, agents report more inquiries, but the markets in both countries are still quiet and prices low, especially in France. John Hart, author of A House in France, notes: 'It is not a rush. The British are mainly looking for houses, rather than apartments, although French and Dutch buyers are also in the market. Inquiries about northern French property picked up just before Christmas, says Maggie Kelly, of French agents L'Abri-tanique in Hesdin. UK buyers can now sell their UK home to put money into a main residence or second home in France. Prices have stopped falling in northern France and hopes are high that the tunnel, motorways and new railways will resuscitate the region. For example, a glorious, repossessed abbey with five acres in Tortefontaine, with a 12th century hall and many outbuildings, is on sale at around FFr750,000 (Pounds 86,000) from agents Latitudes or L'Abri-tanique. A house in Hesdin, or a nearby country cottage, make good weekend retreats and are far cheaper than their English equivalents. A small house in Montreuil, a walled town with cobbled streets, costs FFr280,000 from La Residence. A small, partly-restored farmhouse near Montreuil can be bought for FFr135,000 from A House in France. When Kelly sees Range Rover and Jaguar drivers collecting their cases of wine in Hesdin, she would like them to drop into her office 100 metres away and choose a house as well. Latitudes has on its books an 18th century town house with internal courtyard for FFr1.3m, a snip when you think what you would pay in Paris. Near Fruges is a water mill for FFr900,000 and, in the valley of the Ternoise, an 18th century brick house needing work is available for just FFr450,000. Outside Le Touquet, A House in France offers a chateau complete with fortification wall and tunnels for FFr1.3m. In the countryside beyond Dieppe, a typical Norman house, restored and including most of the furniture and a cottage, is for sale for Pounds 125,000 from Domus Abroad. At the other end of the tunnel Cluttons reports Belgians and Dutch registering at the Canterbury office for period cottages for around Pounds 200,000, and French and Belgians at the Folkestone office - where David Parry reports that Arabs are interested in blocks of flats on the sea front. Along the M2, Strutt &amp; Parker offers 52 St Margaret's Street, Rochester, a Grade II* late 17th century house, for Pounds 190,000, and a Tudor (1508) and Georgian Kentish hall, Cobrahamsole Hall at Sheldwich near Faversham for Pounds 275,000. In the old Cinque Port of Deal, Strutt &amp; Parker and Bright &amp; Bright offer Woodbine, a Georgian house with walled garden and studio, for Pounds 330,000. 