At this time, haying and grazing do not apply to Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage. _June 9. Standing hay on farms held in inventory (taken over) by the Farmers Home Administration can be sold at a reasonable cost to help feed livestock in drought counties where state offices of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service have authorized release of set-aside acres for haying and grazing. _June 14. Lyng briefs Senate and House Agriculture Committees on the drought and offers to cooperate with the Congressional Relief Task Force announced by Sen. The White House announces a new Interagency Drought Policy Committee made up of USDA, Interior, the Office of the Vice President and several other agencies. Lyng announces that farmers in designated drought counties will be authorized to harvest hay from land in the Conservation Reserve Program. The Interagency Drought Policy Committee meets for the first time. _June 20. Lyng announces haying will be allowed on CRP land if a county has been approved for emergency haying and grazing of ACR and CUA land due to drought. _June 22. Lyng and other USDA officials meet in Chicago with the National Governors' Association Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. _June 23. While in Chicago, Lyng announces a toll-free hotline to answer questions about federal services available in drought areas. _June 23. Returning to Washington, Lyng briefs the president and vice president on the drought and says that there is agreement among congressmen, senators, farm groups and governors that it is too early for emergency relief measures. _June 23. After the White House meeting, the Interagency Drought Policy Committee meets for the second time at USDA. _June 24. USDA announces that special crop surveys in several states and other steps will be taken to update the department's July 12 crop report and supply-and-demand projections for fall harvets, including corn and soybeans. _June 27. An additional $50 million has been set aside to buy bulk ground beef for donation to schools lunch and other feeding programs, to help cattle producers hurt by drought. _June 27. Lyng authorizes additional emergency provisions in drought counties, including permission for selling hay to anyone, and the harvest of ACR, CUA and CRP land as green chop for immediate feeding to livestock or silage. _June 27. Intragency Drought Policy Committee meets for the third time. _June 28. 