Even the scientists came to cross-purposes in designing this little world. Nevertheless it will be the same air and water year-round. The oxygen is breathed in by humans and animals who breathe out carbon dioxide which is breathed in by the plants and used in photosynthesis which produces more oxygen. Biosphere II is built on a hill to take advantage of the natural proclivity of water. A stream begins on an 85-foot mountain that dominates the rain forest. It then flows through the plains and grasslands of the savanna, down to the 25-foot deep ocean with its coral reef and then to the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up before it reaches the desert. The water-laden air then is drawn and climbs the mountain where natural cooling and condensing coils bring it down as rain and dew to feed the stream again. So Dr. Tony Burgess of the University of Arizona patterned the deserts after those of Baja California where the cactus and other plants have learned to live with ocean fog. In a world without chemicals, the biosphere settlers will rely on ladybugs, lacewings, marigolds and crop rotation to control pests. "The earth has its problems," says Carl Hodges of the University of Arizona who designed the human habitat. "We've got acid rain problems, dirty air problems, and we've got carbon dioxide increasing at an alarming rate. I see the big payoff of Biosphere II as learning how to do a better job of stewardship of Biosphere I." The rain forest and its towering mountain and stream are the design of Dr. Ghillean Prance, director of the Kew Royal Botanical Gardens of London in association with the New York Botanical Garden. He patterned it after the dwindling rain forests of the Amazon. Dr. Peter Warshall of the University of Arizona patterned the savanna grasslands after those of South America, Australia and Africa. Plants and animals from those areas create the grasslands in Biosphere II. In all, some 3,800 species of plant and animal life are being invited to the party, and as in the original Eden, snakes. In these areas, where well-defined habitats change, scientists hope to learn how desert encroaches on more productive areas, what happens when fresh water turns brackish, what goes on when climates change. Probably the first to consider Earth and its environment as a biosphere was a Soviet scientist, V.I. Vernadsky in 1926. 