Carl Grindberg survived the drought with a $45,000 dose of federal aid. The 1988 drought relief program poured more than $400 million into North Dakota, the nation's most agriculturally dependent state. "If it hadn't been for drought aid, the economic situation all through North Dakota would have been disastrous. "I don't think too many farmers took disaster aid and bought Cadillacs and went on vacation in my area," Grindberg added. A study of the $3.9 billion disaster relief program, conducted by The Associated Press over seven months, found that outside the Midwest drought area, lax rules and requirements led to thousands of farmers collecting millions of dollars for nothing more serious than the normal trials of nature. But money did reach areas Congress most intended to aid, including North Dakota, where it kept some farmers on their land and may have prevented some business closures. "You might say it kept the state alive," said Fred Selberg, another farmer in this Red River Valley county. North Dakota, where the drought evoked memories of Dust Bowl days with tumbleweed dancing along the barren horizon, received the most disaster dollars. But drought aid cut farmers' losses from $1.1 billion to $706 million, a North Dakota State University study found. Disaster payments reduced statewide losses to businesses, banks and households from $3.4 billion to $2.1 billion, the study said. Another university survey of 466 farmers said that without drought aid, the average farmer's net cash income would have been just $6,300. Disaster aid and crop insurance also were critical to other drought-ravaged states, including Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Disaster aid and crop insurance pumped about $500 million into Iowa's economy, an Iowa State University study said. "Even the drought assistance for most farmers fell well short of bringing what their income would be with normal yields, but it provided a safety net," he said. Good crops the next two years started to reverse the trend, but drought stalled the recovery. "It has a demoralizing effect when you have a disaster," said Dwight Aakre, a North Dakota State economist. Despite relief and nearly $200 million in crop insurance, the state still needs "a good year to get back on our feet," Hauck said. Cass County also had a better 1989 crop but expects higher losses in crop dollars. And while virtually all farmers here received government aid in 1988, far fewer will be eligible a second time. About $19.8 million in 1988 aid was divvied up among 1,847 farms in Cass County, the state's leader in crop acres. For Larry Richard, a 36-year-old father of three who farms 1,000 acres near the town of Horace, $39,000 in aid, even coupled with $55,000 in crop insurance, amounted to "just enough to break even. Grindberg, who farms 900 acres of wheat, soybeans and barley, was in the red last year despite $70,000 in aid and insurance. 