The constitutionality of such state term limits may, however, be tested next month. Florida's attorney general has asked its state Supreme Court for an advisory opinion on a term-limit initiative that would limit the state's members of Congress to eight consecutive years in office. Three U.S. House members, led by Democrat Larry Smith, have filed briefs asking the court to rule state term limits unconstitutional. By 6 to 1, the California Supreme Court ruled this month that the state's new term-limit law was constitutional. The court said the state's strong interests in protecting against an entrenched, dynastic legislative bureaucracy outweighed objections that term limits restrict voter choice at the ballot box. But the court's decision affected only term limits on state officials; federal officeholders weren't included in California's limits. They argued that voters were denied the right to be represented by the same legislator indefinitely, and that term limits discriminated against incumbents and denied them their right to equal protection of the laws. Term limitations do not restrict the right to vote for a candidate because of his or her ideology or party. Fashing, the U.S. Supreme Court determined that a particular candidate has no fundamental right to ballot access or to run for office. Federal courts have upheld many state restrictions on who may qualify for ballot access. The Supreme Court has found that clause violated only in those cases where ballot access restrictions discriminate against the poor and against new, small or independent party candidates. Viewed in this way, term limits imposed by states would be constitutional. The Supreme Court has long held that the power to ensure a fair electoral system, truly responsive representation in Congress and a high degree of citizen participation in elections rests with the states. Brown, the Supreme Court upheld a California law that prohibited an independent candidate from running for Congress because he had changed his registration to Independent less than 11 months before the election. On this basis, term limits merely ensure a fair election system and the republican form of government guaranteed the states under the Constitution. Should the court rule against term limits by the states, numerous other ballot access restrictions will likely be passed that have many of the same effects as term limits. Each candidate would have to answer the question: Will you adhere to a -- year term limit? The answer would appear on the ballot so voters would know a candidate's views on term limits. 