Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein's support within the Iraqi military.President Bush's political argument for going to a ground war has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports of wanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait.Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV's "This Week With David Brinkley" that the series of United Nations resolutions condemning Iraq's invasion of Kuwait "imply that the restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be a heck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not in power in Iraq."U.S. commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the first hours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.But it has offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, not just the liberation of Kuwait.The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly, leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait.The allied rejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiative from an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms.If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plunged his country first into a fruitless eight-year-long war against Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S. and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving much of his country's military establishment and modern infrastructure in ruins.Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S. ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin as previously planned Saturday night.The American hope is that someone from within Iraq, perhaps from the army's professional ranks, will step forward and push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can begin recovering from the disaster.The Bush administration considers the sanctions essential to keeping Saddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.American war planners have long assumed that the early stage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and their strength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi front line, would be the easiest part.That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or its armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power.The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S. officials now say, was that they all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq."So far, the offensive is progressing with dramatic success," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commander of U.S. forces.