Mr. Sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington.But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls.Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues.At the same time, Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies.It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen.The announcement of Mr. Sununu's departure came in Meridian, Miss., where the White House distributed photocopies of the handwritten resignation letter.In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation "with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss."One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year; he argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat.Mr. Sununu began to face rough political waters a year ago when, as one of Mr. Bush's chief negotiators on the deficit reduction agreement, he bruised congressional egos from both political parties with heavy-handed lobbying and what many saw as disregard for their stature as elected representatives.And the suggestion of dispatching him back home to New Hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when Mr. Bush decided to have his campaign there run by former GOP Gov.In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the "chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence" he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office.Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates.As a result, Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of his party.The nature of the final year of Mr. Bush's first term now hinges on whom he picks to be his White House chief of staff and whom he chooses to run his re-election campaign.Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down.