Term limits would give the people of California more control over the Legislature, and the Legislature would be less prone to special interests, because legislators would know they are going to be there for six years and they're out.As to what are the implications of term limitations in the state of California, a lot of people think that this is a partisan issue.There has been a national movement that started in California, 25 years ago, to really strengthen the role of legislatures and to make them co-equal branches of government; things like term limitations, which would restrict the power and authority of legislatures, are a step backward in that movement.Proposition 131 would limit statewide elected officials to two consecutive four-year terms, state legislators to 12 consecutive years in office; Proposition 140 would hold Assembly members to six years in office, state senators and statewide elected officials to eight.If there are constant changes, the impact of term limits would be to empower the bureaucracy -- the people who are not elected -- and (they) would definitely empower the special interests who have the finances and the ability to assist the bureaucrats.The parties could be helped by this . . . people would have to become more dependent on the party for funding and for guidance, and less dependent on the special interests.And the other thing a lot of people seem to think is that you the governor -- or you the legislator -- can get up there and solve these problems tomorrow.The most negative and pernicious impact of term limitations will be on the leadership of the Legislature . . .6 ballot would, among other things, limit the terms of statewide officeholders and state legislators.It would mean that, in relative terms, the legislatures would cede more power and authority to the executive branch, to lobbyists and to legislative staff.The Legislature, right now, is controlled by those people who have a vested interest in legislation.But legislatures also need strong committee chairmen, and term limits mean that relatively inexperienced people are going to be in leadership and that they are -- by definition -- lame ducks from the very beginning.(Term limits) would stop (politics) from being a professional occupation.The Schabarum initiative (Proposition 140, backed by Los Angeles County Supervisor Pete Schabarum), with a six-year limit (for Assembly members), would have an adverse effect on the Latino community.Elected officials are supposed to represent the people who elect them.Since states do have the power to amend the Constitution on their own, although it is much harder to do it that way, it could very well be that the groundswell of support for (this) movement in some key industrial states would lead to, not only initiatives in those states to restrict their own state legislative terms, but also . . . a demand for a constitutional amendment to do the same.The national effect would be very impressive because, unlike Oklahoma (where voters recently approved a 12-year-limit on legislators), which does not have a reputation for being in the vanguard of political change in America, California does.So, governing the state of California . . . is not as easy and simple as a lot of people would think.Because it is the largest political state in the country, a success for either proposition here is likely to have spinoff moves around the country. . . .Instead of worrying about what their constituents think, as it gets toward the end of their term, legislators are going to be worried about what their next employer thinks, possibly in the private sector, or in their next constituency, which will not necessarily share the same interests as the one that elected them.It would become clear rather quickly that you have a bunch of elected amateurs trying to run a very complex, complicated system of state government.