The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields.With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region, Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army, possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments.The president said he hopes to free Kuwait through economic pressure on Saddam Hussein, which continued to mount as the world's oil-consuming nations -- and, just as importantly, many of its leading oil producers -- joined together in a campaign to cut off Iraqi oil without causing global economic dislocation.More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each.The following afternoon, he and Robert Gates, the president's deputy advisor for national security; Paul Wolfowitz, Mr. Cheney's top policy aide; and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, soon to become overall commander of the growing nucleus of U.S. forces, were aloft.Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units.They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to "marry up" with their equipment at points where the ships arrive.The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack, according to U.S. officials, could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia, a base in the Indian Ocean.According to industry and other sources, the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port.Although the sudden U.S. moves to Saudi Arabia may seem ad-hoc, they draw on the experience of many war games, such as the one staged in Leavenworth last June by the Army Materiel Command.Privately, U.S. officials say the estimates for the eventual U.S. commitment of troops, which began landing at Saudi bases yesterday afternoon, go as high as 40,000, and would include a carefully-tailored mix of light and armored units that may have to remain there for weeks or months.The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass.U.S. policy assumed then that the Saudis would not give U.S. forces basing rights, at least not in the initial stages of a conflict."We will deploy adequate forces for the mission," said Gen. Powell.President Bush, saying that "a line has been drawn in the sand," vowed in a televised address that he wouldn't tolerate the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.As Mr. Cheney put it, the Arab leaders agreed that Saddam Hussein's menacing behavior "represented a qualitative shift in the rules of behavior" in the Middle East.