Then the U.S. would extract its ground forces from the region while relying on Gulf governments to craft a new security system that could be silently supported by Washington.The new U.S. bonds with Syria and Saudi Arabia create an opening to address the Arab-Israeli conflict on a more comprehensive plane in which the U.S. tries first to lead Arab states to make peace with Israel, then addresses the Palestinian issue in that broader process.Although Mr. Bush took pains to note that "no one country can claim this victory as its own," the triumph will clearly leave the U.S., along with its friends in Egypt and Saudi Arabia, as the dominant powers in the Middle East.Beyond that, officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a military alliance of Saudi Arabia and the five smaller Gulf Arab states, already have worked out plans for an Islamic peacekeeping force to guard Kuwait.Mr. Bush and other officials were miffed that so little appreciation was expressed for U.S. efforts to eliminate the Iraqi military threat.The problem is exacerbated by the growing likelihood, acknowledged privately by Bush administration aides, that Saddam Hussein will survive in power for at least a while longer.This particularly enhances the position of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Saudi King Fahd, who gambled that they could defy Iraq and rely on the U.S. to stand with them -- and who now can claim that their gamble paid off handsomely."At this point, making it very clear Saddam Hussein has been defeated and there are no illusions about it is good -- provided that we know how to play the next phase," said William Quandt, a former National Security Council Middle East analyst now with the Brookings Institution.Syrians don't love Saddam Hussein, but they aren't fond of the U.S., either.In private discussions with the U.S., Syria acknowledged that it faced serious internal unhappiness over sending Syrian forces along on the ground attack in Kuwait.In a statement read on Baghdad Radio, Iraq finally agreed to President Bush's demand not only to withdraw from Kuwait, but also to accept U.N. Security Council resolutions that require Baghdad to drop its claim to Kuwait and that make Iraq liable for paying war reparations.Similarly, Jordan's open sympathy for Iraq has deeply strained relations with the U.S., creating another impediment to solving the Palestinian problem.President Hafez Assad's power clearly is enhanced by the defeat of his archrival next door, Saddam Hussein, and his new chumminess with Washington."If Saddam Hussein is weak enough, you'll see that kind of thing going on again," predicts Kenneth Katzman, a former U.S. intelligence analyst who now is a defense consultant.Late last night it was reported that Iraq's U.N. mission had sent a letter to the U.N. accepting all the Security Council resolutions on the Gulf war.Tehran will insist on being a part of any new Persian Gulf security system, and may use its influence within it to agitate for expelling any Western forces from the region.An administration official said the U.S. doesn't expect him to give in to all of Mr. Bush's demands of last night.During a recent Oval Office meeting between Mr. Bush and Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Arens, for instance, Mr. Arens annoyed the president by complaining about how hard it was to exercise such restraint, and implied that Israel's air force could do a better job than America's of destroying Scud sites.