While the views of President Bush's first Supreme Court nominee, David Souter, were virtually unknown before his confirmation, the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas has boldly articulated his vision of constitutional law, both as a judge -- he now sits on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the nation's second-highest bench -- and, before that, as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for eight years.Mr. Thomas had his skirmishes with the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, an umbrella group instrumental in defeating the Bork nomination, and he made a dangerous enemy in the American Association of Retired Persons, which accused him of letting legal protections for the elderly lapse.Writing in the Howard Law Journal in 1987, Mr. Thomas argued for what he called a "natural law" or "higher law" mode of judging, in which the judge examines not only the text of the Constitution or statute but also the moral principles underlying the American form of government."Thomas came in, and he rejected all that," remarks William Robinson, dean of the District of Columbia School of Law.The reason for the smooth passage, EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench) thinks, is that "Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition.Dean Robinson added, "People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think, but Clarence is his own man."At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration, and in 1981 he was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education.While at the EEOC, Mr. Thomas gave speeches accusing the Republican Party of "blatant indifference" toward black voters, and chastised Ronald Reagan in particular for letting Bob Jones University get away with racial discrimination, and for "foot dragging" on the Voting Rights Act extension.Mr. Thomas is likely to be a very different kind of judge from the man he is replacing."Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says, not what he wants it to say," Mr. Thomas told me.And these are people looking to me, to the judge, to figure out what's just, to correctly apply the law.In a powerful speech Mr. Thomas gave on Martin Luther King Day three years ago, he defended certain forms of civil disobedience.Mr. Thomas's life is a remarkable story.Even liberal judges will go on record praising Mr. Thomas.Mr. Thomas maintains, with support from Abraham Lincoln and abolitionist Frederick Douglass, that the Constitution must be read in the context of the principle of equality inherent in the Declaration of Independence.