The USS Vincennes' destruction of an Iranian jetliner with 290 people aboard was a tragic result of its captain and crew doing their duty, members of the ship's namesake organization said Sunday. Rogers was presented with a letter saying that while on duty in the Persian Gulf, his tactical skills and calm direction enabled his crew to successfully engage seven heavily armed high-speed Iranian surface craft attacking the Vincennes in confined and confused waters. Pentagon officials said officers of the Vincennes mistook the Airbus A300 for an Iranian F-14 jet fighter on an attack course. William M. Fogarty, who headed the Navy's investigating team, said the captain of the Vincennes, Will Rogers III, ordered the ship's missiles fired in the mistaken belief the airliner was an Iranian F-14 fighter plane. Will Rogers III, skipper of the San Diego-based Vincennes, escaped unharmed Friday morning moments before a pipe bomb exploded under her van, igniting a fire that gutted her vehicle at a busy La Jolla intersection. Hours after the 7:40 a.m. explosion, the FBI took control of the investigation, suspecting that the bombing might be an act of domestic terrorism linked to the Vincennes' accidental downing of an Iranian civilian airliner in the Persian Gulf last July, killing 290. He said that no special security precautions had been undertaken for Rogers, crew members and their families after the Vincennes returned to San Diego. No Threats However, Navy spokesmen in San Diego said Friday that no threats had been made against Rogers, the Vincennes or any of its crew members since the ship returned to San Diego. The Vincennes and Rogers received some negative mail last July, shortly after the Iranian plane was shot down, a spokesman said. Since the Vincennes returned to San Diego, Rogers has been overseeing routine ship maintenance and training in preparation for its next deployment. Terrorism experts believe that the bombing of Pan American Flight 103 may have been retribution for the Vincennes' shooting down of the Iranian jetliner. 