President unleashes army, rocket launchers, MiG-21s SubHead: Rumblings of rebellion: Opposition aghast at 'state terrorism' Author: Jan Cienski HARARE, Zimbabwe - Elements of Zimbabwe's army began leaving their barracks yesterday in an ominous sign that Robert Mugabe intends to rig this weekend's presidential election and is preparing for a fight if the opposition challenges him. Meanwhile, a group of up to 800 veterans of Zimbabwe's independence war has asked for foreign help to mount a rebellion against Mr. Mugabe if he steals the election. In Harare yesterday, Michael Quintana, editor of Africa Defence Journal, said he had toured military barracks in the capital and found soldiers were moving out in small groups of three trucks at a time. Three MiG-21 fighters flew low over farmland in Mashonaland West in an apparent intimidatory display meant to underline the threat being spread by ruling party thugs: If President Robert Mugabe loses the election, we will go to war. Observers and the opposition worry Mr. Mugabe, the country's only President in 22 years of independence, is becoming increasingly reckless in his attempt to hold on to power. Already, his ruling Zimbabwean African National Unity-Patriotic Front party has moved to disenfranchise thousands of supporters of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. The party says 22 MDC election monitors have been abducted. The voting rolls include the names of as many as 80% of the people in Zimbabwe who have died in the past two years, while thousands of the living will not be allowed to cast their ballots. Thousands of MDC supporters have been chased from their homes and have sought refuge in Harare and other large cities. In Harare, an MDC stronghold, the government has cut the number of polling stations by as much as 35%, the party charged. The MDC says as many as 34 of its supporters have been killed since the presidential campaign began in January and fears are rising there will be an explosion of violence next week, no matter what the result of the election. If Mr. Mugabe wins, We are going to fight, my friend, said an MDC supporter and trader in Harare's main market, while senior government officials have indicated they will not respect an MDC victory. Now is the time to teach everyone, the British first, that when it comes to the issue of defending our national sovereignty, we shall not retreat, he said to an enthusiastic crowd of about 8,000 supporters. He predicted victory and vowed to continue pursuing Mr. Tsvangirai after the election. The opposition leader has been accused of trying to assassinate Mr. Mugabe. We are willing to defend the interests of the people of Zimbabwe at all costs and will not stand idly by if the election is clearly not free and fair, he said. 