On Thursday the summit adopted a resolution that proposed the recognition of the Jewish state, normal relations, and an end to the conflict in return for Israeli withdrawal from the Palestinian territories that Israel has occupied for almost 35 years. Even the mention of one of the cardinal problems between Israel and the Palestinians - the future of the 3 million Arab refugees - was couched in terms softer than at any time in the past. The resolution that was put forward by Saudi Arabia was a plea addressed to the Israeli people over the heads of Ariel Sharon's government. No Arab leader was in any doubt that from Sharon's standpoint the resolution was not welcome. On Thursday evening a Palestinian suicide bomber attacked a hotel in Natanya where a couple of hundred people had gathered for the traditional Passover meal. Twenty-two people were killed, in addition to the suicide bomber, and 130 were injured. Despite Arafat's promise to take action to neutralize the people on the list, he did not lift a finger. As a first step Israeli forces were sent into the main Palestinian town, Ramallah, where Arafat has his headquarters and from where the autonomous Palestinian areas are administered. Prior to the Natanya massacre Washington had imposed a number of limitations on Sharon. Israeli's antiterrorist operations must not bring the Palestinian Authority to collapse, Israeli forces must not reconquer the territories under the jurisdiction of the authority, and Arafat the man must not be molested. According to these sources, Sharon had accepted the cease-fire proposal, while Arafat hesitated. For the time being at least the United States has thus given Sharon a free hand. It cannot solve the Israeli people's security problems, because the root of the terrorism is the Israeli occupation and the Israeli settlements on occupied territory. The settlers, who number around 220,000 people, have taken the Israeli Government and consequently both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples hostage. The day the Israeli tanks again leave Ramallah they will have sown the seed for new terrorist actions. 