The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes? So she said, Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you. So the little girl just said, OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes. And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off. All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school. That was my dream, to teach school. As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this. Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college. So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, Baby, I really want you to go to college. It's always been my dream that my children all go to school. But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money. So I never got a chance to go to school. He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too. If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy. As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, Have you considered being a teacher assistant? But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there. And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year. I enjoy my job very much. A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education. At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply. Well I didn't like writing at the time but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper. I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy. I think that was the last class I took. My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school. Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom. I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence. After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school. I just got to a certain age and I said, No I can't do this anymore, so I never went back. I've only worked at two, two schools. The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down. So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill. And why did the other school close down? I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was. And I enjoy what I do. 