Six days that shook Venezuela CARACAS (AFP) - Here are the main events of the crisis that shook Venezuela over the past six days, in which at least 41 people were killed and 323 were injured: Tuesday, April 9: Venezuela's largest trade union joins a strike by managers at the country's massive state-run oil company, demanding the resignation of a new board of directors appointed by President Hugo Chavez. Thursday, April 11: Some 50,000 people, including business and union leaders, mass to demand Chavez's resignation. Friday, April 12: Army commander General Efrain Vazquez announces that Chavez wants to resign. - Business leader Pedro Carmona replaces Chavez as the new President, dissolves the National Assembly, dismisses the Supreme Court, revokes 49 controversial Chavez decrees and announces Presidential elections in one year. - Latin American leaders meeting in Costa Rica for a trade summit denounce Venezuela's breakdown of constitutional order. Saturday, April 13: In Washington, the Organization of American States says it is prepared to apply against Venezuela a charter requiring sanctions for any member that abandons democracy. - Pro-Chavez rioting breaks out in Caracas and other parts of country. - The commander of Venezuela's paratrooper brigade - Chavez's old unit - refuses to recognise orders of the interim government. - Chavez is transferred from an army base in Caracas to the island of Orchila, in the Caribbean Sea. - Thousands of Chavez supporters march towards the Presidential palace. - Carmona takes refuge at Tiuna Fort, southwest of Caracas. - Top military leaders say their support of Carmona is conditional upon his respecting democratic institutions and allowing Chavez to leave Venezuela freely. - Carmona announces the restoration of the National Assembly, as Chavez cabinet members move into the Presidential palace and hold a meeting. - Carmona resigns the interim presidency, and Chavez's vice-President, Diosdado Cabello, takes over as acting President. 