Chris Stetkiewicz NEW YORK 1996-08-20 The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting Tuesday , leaving economists and analysts pondering what the central bank might do next. Some analysts said that while Fed policy-makers resisted pressures this summer to raise short-term rates , economic data over the coming weeks may force them to raise rates later this year. However , recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in August , although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals. _ Before the Fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year , they better have a solid economic justification for doing that , _ said Sung Won Sohn , chief economist at Norwest Corp. _ Without the justifications , they would rather wait. _ Some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook , meaning the Fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears. _ I think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going , _ said Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor and currently an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. 24 FOMC meeting. _ Despite signs of strong economic growth , inflation remains quite low historically , and Fed leaders have refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data. We_ 'll need to see jobless claims move back up pretty soon in_order_to confirm the economic slowdown story , _ said Josh Feinman , global markets economist at BT Securities Corp. That also suggests the economy continues to churn out new jobs at a pace likely to drag the unemployment rate lower than July's 5.4 percent reading , analysts said. The absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the Fed will hold monetary policy steady. _ Strong job growth has persisted long enough that the Fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice , _ said Gary Schlossberg , senior economist at Wells Fargo Bank. Critics initially blasted the Fed for failing to raise rates at its July FOMC meeting when a report just two days later showed 239,000 new jobs created in June. 