SALONICA (A.A) - 15.04.2002 - State Minister Kemal Dervis for Economy arrived in Salonica city of Greece on Sunday to attend a conference to be organized by the Black Sea Commerce and Development Bank, and to hold a series of contacts with Greek officials. Speaking at the press conference, Dervis said, "economic cooperation between Turkey and Greece will make an important contribution to the Balkans, Middle East and the Black Sea regions. Turkey and Greece can cooperate in many fields like they have been doing so within structure of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC). Recalling that the new tender law had enabled everyone to join public investment tenders, Dervis said that Greek investors could benefit from the law. State Minister Kemal Dervis has said that regional cooperation structures like the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) were not the antithesis of globalization. Dervis who arrived in Salonica on Sunday attended the opening of the conference entitled, "Black Sea Business Day" which was organized by Black Sea Commerce and Development Bank. Speaking at the opening of the conference, Dervis defined the regional cooperation as formation of good neighborly field and said, "the success of Western Europe after World War II laid in its creation of the good neighborly field. For example, South America is not a good neighborly field, and therefore, all regional countries are suffering from difficulties." Dervis said that regional countries' making investment in any sector was not a loss for the other regional countries, but was a benefit, and stated that the investors who got used to the region would also come to the other countries and this was effective especially in tourism sector. Dervis stated that Turkey had shown a great economic performance in last 20-25 years, and added that Turkish economy grew by 7-8 percent. But around 4.5 percent growth was caught. Dervis who touched on the cooperation between Turkey and Greece, said, "the cooperation between Turkey and Greece also have great importance symbolically. Dervis came together with Greek Development Minister Akis Tsokhatzopoulos following the opening of the ceremony. 