Finance Minister Pedro Malan insisted yesterday on the need for a more profound constructive engagement on the part of multilateral institutions and governments in helping Argentina. The priority now is to unshackle the credit system, for there is no modern economy that can function without credit. Malan criticizes the stance taken by multilateral institutions like the IMF, who are asking for reforms in Argentina before the country can receive financial help. Pedro Malan's attitude in relation to Argentina is very different from that of Jaime Caruana, governor of the Bank of Spain, the Spanish central bank. The Bank of Spain Governor did not want to detail what points Argentina should deal with to expand its program. Malan noted that as part of the constructive engagement in relation to Argentina, a group of experts spent the day with authorities from that country, recounting their experiences in situations like the one the Argentines are facing. In Argentina's defense, Malan says that Brazil's Mercosur partner has sought to define with clarity the fundamental issues of its basic regimes - foreign exchange (floating exchange rate regime), monetary (they intend, after phase of transition, to define their inflation goal system, which was important to Spain from 1995-1998) and fiscal. Malan defends a single currency for Mercosur. The Minister believes that tension between Brazil and Argentina, resulting from the floating of the real in 1999, will tend to disappear because the neighboring country is opting for a floating exchange rate system. Malan predicts that Argentina will be more competitive when it emerges from the crisis. According to the Minister, Mercosur managed, after an enormous technical effort,' something that did not exist in the region two years ago - the harmonization of the statistics of the member countries, Bolivia and Chile, which were not comparable before. This was an important step that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called a little Maastricht, that is, the search for convergence parameters that serve as a reference point for talks between experts from the six countries, the Minister says. 