The Europeans are enthusiastically holding in their hands the euro, our currency that for so long had been no more than a much-wielded slogan. The linking to the dollar, as a guarantee of stability, was meant to rid them of the hyperinflation running at 2000 percent a year they had experienced during the 1970s and 80s. The social contract implemented by Carlos Menem at the start of his 10-year presidency (1989-99) was simple in principle and based on two pillars: Monetary discipline and liberalism. Introducing the currency board system in 1991 obliged the central bank to guarantee the pesos in circulation with foreign currency reserves, in the same way as issuing bodies used to only issue notes to the equivalent of the gold reserves they held. Hence the official parity between the peso and the dollar until 1 December 2001 when it became necessary to introduce exchange controls with a devastating effect. Michael Mussa, chief economist with the IMF until last April, recognizes this: If we had paid more attention to the growing budgetary deficit and national debt between 1996 and 1998, Argentina would have been in a much better position to absorb the impact of the devaluation of the Brazilian real. Second paradox: The self-proclaimed parity between the peso and the dollar never enabled the government and even less private borrowers to obtain credit terms to match those enjoyed by the Americans. Argentine pension funds have enjoyed interest rates as high as 35 percent over recent months: No less than 45 percent of the national debt estimated at between $130 and $150 billion is held by the Argentines themselves. Appeals were already made to the creditors during the first phase of the debt rescheduling involving the $55 billion held by Argentine funds and that was completed at the end of November. At the same time private debtors who became indebted in a strong currency would find themselves ruined by a peso devaluation. The final switch to the dollar would stabilize relations between creditors and debtors. But it would also be a very painful way of restoring credibility, like when one loses one's virginity and the only solution is to enter a convent, as one monetary expert put it. But neither dollarization nor the currency board provides a guarantee of low interest rates, as there will always be an Argentine risk. That leaves the most economically realistic solution, the one backed by the technical experts: Floating the currency, but it is also the most risky. 