a brief History Prehistoric man in Asia Minor (now modern Turkey) or Greece could look out across the Aegean toward the horizon and see the faint silhouette of land. An important early material, obsidian, was discovered on the island of Milos. Cycladic Culture At around 3500 b.c. , a sophisticated culture evolved in the Cyclades islands. Santorini (Thira), the next major island north, was heavily influenced by Crete, and the settlements of Thira and Akrotiri thrived at this time. In the wake of this tremendous natural upheaval, the Aegean Islands next came under the influence of the Mycenaeans (at around 1300 b.c. ), who had a base in the Peloponnese region of the Greek mainland. They held sway over islands off the northern Greek coast, but the Phoenicians kept control of the main sea routes; south of the area, trade continued as usual. Homer wrote his epic works on Chios; and lyrical poetry was much admired, particularly the work of the poets Archilochos on Paros and Sappho on Lesvos. The Persian Wars As Athens rose in influence and power in the West, it was matched in the East by the rise of the Persian Empire. From a power base in Anatolia, the Persians overran the eastern Aegean Islands and set their sights on the Cyclades. Several islands and Greek city-states agreed to work together, and created a treasury to fund their plans, which was held on the island of Delos. In 431 b.c. , Athens began a war with its neighbor and league member Sparta. Although the islands saw little action, as the war went on they could see that Athens was slowly losing its power. Before the end of the war in 401 b.c. , many islands had already transferred their allegiance to the victors, who were led by Philip II of Macedon. Although in 88 b.c. , Mithradates made a swift and successful raid from the East across Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands, the next major power change brought influence from the West. 330, however, when the newly converted Emperor Constantine made Byzantium, renamed Constantinople, capital of his Eastern Empire that Christianity was assured of its dominant role in future Greek life. The Byzantine Empire had powerful and well-fortified cities, but the countryside and the outlying islands were ravaged by waves of invaders. In an attempt to counter a threat from the Saracen Muslims, a new potent religious force from the East, the Byzantine army forcefully enlisted the men of the islands. By the time of the Crusades, many of the Aegean islands had been practically depopulated. The crusaders swept through the l;and of Byzantium slaughtering Christians as well as Muslims, civilians as well as soldiers. While Byzantine land was being divided, there was no one in control of the seas, so pirates raided towns on many of the islands. The minor Aegean Islands were taken by various powerful European noblemen, many of whom were Genoese or Venetian, such as Marco Sanudo on Naxos. The Genoese took control of the eastern Aegean Islands, which were considered the most valuable for agriculture and trade. By the end of the 13th century, they began their first raids on the Aegean Islands. In 1566, they wrested Chios from the Genoese, bolstering their hold on the eastern Aegean Islands, but the Cyclades remained in Venetian hands for another generation or more -- Tinos was the last to fall in 1715. The Ottomans brought new influences to the islands that they controlled, forming a large empire that stretched around the eastern Mediterranean. In 1770, Russia came to aid the Greeks (defined by their Orthodox religion rather than by historical geographical boundaries), declaring war on the Ottoman Empire and occupying several Aegean islands until 1774. The Aegean Islands played their part. The Ottoman Empire was weakening, however, and in 1821, the peoples of the Greek mainland achieved nationhood for the first time. The Cyclades and the Sporades island chains were also included in this new state. A new sense of identity enveloped Greek peoples throughout the Aegean, thus commencing a movement to expand Greece and unify the disparate Orthodox populations. The Turks lost a short war with Italy, and were forced to relinquish the Dodecanese islands to the Italians. Greece took this opportunity to absorb the islands of the northern and eastern Aegean and to add Macedonia to its mainland territories. Greece moved in to administer the land, but a new influence upset any grand dreams of making this region a part of greater Greece. Many had to leave their birthplaces, fleeing to Lesvos, Chios, and Samos, the Greek-ruled islands just offshore. Thousands of people arrived with little more than the clothes they wore, putting great strain on the resources of the islands. Finally, Greece was ousted from its new territory in Asia Minor, which became part of the new Turkish state. Greece attempted to stay out of World War II, but Mussolini saw Greece as an ideal addition to his Italian empire. His forces made a series of attacks from their bases in the Dodecanese islands, including sinking a Greek naval vessel in the harbor of Tinos Town, but they only succeeded in strengthening the resolve of the population against them. Later the Germans came in force and occupied many of the islands. After the war, in 1949, the Dodecanese islands finally became part of the Greek nation. The struggle bypassed most of the islands, although there was fierce fighting on Samos. The Aegean Islands, which for centuries had been important ports on the trading routes, became the backwaters of this new transport network and the economies of several islands came close to collapse. Many Greek islanders chose to leave rather than live in poverty and terror, and many made new homes in the United States and Australia. The expansion of air travel began the age of mass tourism, and Greece along with the Aegean Islands became exciting destinations for northern Europeans escaping their damp, cool summers. 