ALBANIA : Albanian rebels add Italy to enemies' list. Stephen Weeks VLORE , Albania 1997-03-31 Albanian rebels holding this Adriatic port added Rome to their list of enemies on Monday after a crowded refugee boat intercepted by the Italian navy sank last week. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for the dead. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for the dead. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for the dead. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Link: [Comments: s1 provides an explanation for the dead. Also the deaths , the boat sinking , the rebel council. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for the multinational security force.] _ We want no Italians in this town. Comments: this in turn has to be included, as it provides the referent for he in the next sentence (again, not important, but provides the referent for another important sentence Link: [Comments: provides referent for he ] _ If we see Italian soldiers in Vlore now , we_ 'll all go crazy. Residents and the rebel council , which has defied President Sali Berisha for almost two months , hold Rome responsible for the deaths because_of its policy of forcing back refugees. No one would receive them with flowers , _ said Simon Malushi , a former army officer. _ We do_ n't want to kill anyone but the situation here is out_of control and people are crazy with anger at the Italians over what happened , _ he said. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's it and the force.] 