It's been described as the largest current civil engineering project, a multibillion dollar link that will help revolutionize Europe's economy and physically end Britain's historic isolation, a dream born in Napoleon's day. The "Chunnel" between Britain and France is half-dug and scheduled to open on time in three years. "We will have the money to finish the project," says Alastair Morton, British deputy chairman of Eurotunnel, the privately owned Anglo-French company overseeing the work. While the French are forging ahead with a high-speed rail link to their end of the tunnel, for example, state-owned British Rail is dragging. "Britain becomes branch line of Europe," a Guardian newspaper headline declared after the government announced June 14 that it would not fund a high-speed rail link between London and the British end of the tunnel. Eurotunnel Chairman Andre Benard said the company has provided for any foreseeable problems, but stressed: "We always made it very clear that this was a risk project." Giant boring machines are digging three tunnels toward each other from Folkestone, England and Calais, France, with the first underground meeting expected in November in the service tunnel between the rail tunnels. Eurotunnel estimates that 28 million passengers and 17 percent of Britain's non-oil trade will pass through the tunnel in the first year. Assuming banks approve, the project would have a total of about $14.6 billion in debt and equity financing. Eurotunnel says it doesn't expect to p end of the century, and probably won't pay shareholders a dividend until 1999, four years later than envisioned. In October, concern about the rising pricetag drove Eurotunnel's banking syndicate to freeze funds for three months until the company reached a truce with Trans-Manche Link, the consortium of 10 British and French contractors doing the construction, over responsibility for $1.7 billion in overruns. The British government's refusal to finance a rail link has presented another big obstacle. Eurotunnel says is can survive without a new link. The French government, on the contrary, is spending roughly $2.8 billion building 210 miles of rail from Paris to the tunnel, with a branch to Brussels, where the EC is headquartered. Trains capable of 190 mph will link the tunnel's freight and passengers to another planned high-speed system. 