And to help these folks along, companies arrange tours for marathon vacations. Bangkok in November, London in April and Stockholm in May.; Skiers have mountain ranges, tennis players have resorts, why can't a runner take a marathon vacation? said Thorn Gilligan, president of Marathon Tours in Boston. It's a celebration for the sport as much as a competition. ; Gilligan took 5,500 people last year on 20 tours to countries from Bermuda to Moscow. In addition to air fare and hotel, runners are guaranteed spots in restricted entry races such as the London Marathon. Qualifying times are not required.; London, the most popular European city to visit, holds the world's largest marathon (April 12 next year). 27, 1992) has grown with the demise of the wall.; Most marathons take you through cities, so you get a chance to see things you'd never see on a sightseeing bus, said Fred Lebow, president of the New York Roadrunner's Club and director of the New York Marathon. Each city has something unique. ; The cities are different, but most marathons include a carbo-loading pasta party the night before, medical exams, a post-race celebration, commemorative T-shirts and awards to finishers. The price includes round-trip air fare, four days and three nights at the Grotto Bay Beach hotel (per person, based on double occupancy), full breakfasts and dinners, a welcome cocktail party and post-race parties and discounts.; England has similar organizations: Sports Tours International and Keith Prowse, a company that specializes in British theater, sports and concert tours.; But it isn't necessary to run 26.2 miles to go on a running vacation, especially if it's a family trip. Some marathons, like Portland's, include additional races: a five-mile run, a five-mile walk and a kids run. In the recent Chicago Marathon, a German man ran with a camera, snapping photos every few miles.; IF YOU'RE INTERESTED; If you're interested in combining a vacation and marathon, here are some firms to contact:; (box) Marathon Tours, 108 Main St., Charlestown, Mass. 