Carl Lewis said he knew Ben Johnson was taking performance-enhancing drugs just after their 100-meter final last fall at the Seoul Olympics. Now Lewis has been implicated in an alleged sabotage of Johnson's drug test, which returned a positive result for the banned anabolic steroid stanozolol. At a Canadian inquiry into drug use in sport Monday at Toronto, Charlie Francis, a Canadian sprint coach, testified that Johnson might have drunk contaminated beer before a urinalysis. Francis based his theory on the fact that Johnson took the steroid furazabol three weeks before the Games, not the difficult-to-detect stanozolol. According to Francis' testimony, Johnson said that an unidentified man who had been talking with Lewis sat near the beer that was provided for the athletes to facilitate them in providing urine samples. Lewis had finished second to Johnson, who set a world record of 9.79 seconds in winning the 100-meter gold medal, and subsequently also had to be tested. Any allocation or innuendo that Carl Lewis tampered with Ben Johnson's drink or sample is ludicrous, said David Greifinger, Lewis' attorney. He set the record at the 1987 World Championships at Rome, where Lewis finished second in 9.93 seconds. Lewis said Sunday that officials of the International Amateur Athletics Federation should disallow Johnson's world record from Rome because Francis has testified his sprinter took drugs before the World Championships. If that were to happen, Lewis would replace Johnson as the world record-holder. IAAF officials, however, said the record will stand because Johnson passed a drug test after the 1987 race. If it has been proven that he took drugs, I would think that (withdrawing the record) is the responsible thing for the sport, Lewis said Sunday. Lewis also contended that Francis' testimony painted a false picture as to why Johnson would take performance-enhancing drugs. According to testimony, since 1981 Johnson has taken such drugs as furazabol, stanozolol and the human growth hormone, which is taken from the pituitary glands of human cadavers or can be taken in synthetic form. That's why they got on drugs. Lewis said track and field is not infested with steroid users as some are beginning to believe in light of the Canadian inquiry. Most of your great athletes are clean, Lewis said. No way in the world does she take drugs, Lewis said, pounding a table. Even before Lewis replaced Johnson as the gold-medal winner two days after the race, the U.S. Olympian said he was happy with his result. It didn't ease the pain of not winning and feeling he (Johnson) was on drugs. The biggest thing about drug use is denial. Lewis, who won four gold medals at the 1984 Summer Games and has been one of the great sprinters and long jumpers in track and field, said he is determined to help the sport's image. That people cannot sacrifice for something in their life, whether it is a small insignificant thing to others or a big thing to the world, what's the use of living? Lewis asked. 