A bill signed into law Monday by President Reagan will sharply restrict employers' use of polygraph tests. Currently, about two million U.S. workers annually take such tests when applying for jobs or when companies are investigating theft or other employee violations. Because of the new law, employers who have relied heavily on lie detectors will have to resort to such alternatives as written tests that are designed to gauge a person's honesty, and background checks of job applicants -- something that critics of polygraphs say they should have been doing in the first place. Managers and other white-collar workers in the securities industry have been subject to polygraph tests where circumstances warrant, the trade group says, adding that the decision to test hinges on the employee's access to negotiable instruments, currency or securities -- not on the employee's rank. While he was chairman of the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission, John Shad testified in a congressional hearing on polygraph testing that brokerage houses need to keep using lie detectors to protect trillions of dollars of securities. Victor Kaufman, president of New York Lie Detection Laboratories, a security-services firm whose clients include a number of brokerage houses, figures the law will knock out about 98% of our polygraph business. Mr. Kaufman asserts that even the use of lie-detector tests when there has been a theft, which will still be permitted under the new law, will end because employers will have to do such things as give an employee a written statement to the effect that he is reasonably suspected of stealing. Some critics of polygraph testing say a major problem with lie detectors is that a conscientious but easily upset truth teller could show the quickened pulse, faster breathing, increased blood pressure and skin reactions that a polygraph typically measures. Polygraph testing and scoring methods currently used in personnel screening have never been shown to be valid tests of truthfulness, said John F. Beary, an assistant dean at Georgetown University School of Medicine, in recent testimony before Congress for the American Medical Association. One banker who will be glad of the new restrictions is Peter Persaud, who says he was denied a job as a vice president of Amerifirst Bank in Miami after twice flunking polygraph tests early this year. I think the polygraph test is designed to make an honest person seem dishonest because of the way it is administered, Mr. Persaud says. Other employees, too, cite problems arising from polygraph tests. Michael Darby, a former manager of a Zale Corp. jewelry store in Duluth, Ga., says that after Zale had a theft problem in an Atlanta store in 1986, the company gave lie detector tests to all of its employees. Testifying before Congress in support of the bill, he alleged that the examiners pressured him into writing down any gossip he had heard about the conduct of other Zale workers -- including drug use -- by telling him he would flunk the test and be fired if he didn't comply. Zale's policy, a spokeswoman explains, is to do very selective polygraph testing during an investigation of suspected theft or loss. The bill to ban most polygraph tests was widely backed by civil-liberties groups, labor unions and Labor Secretary Ann McLaughlin, as well as by such organizations as the AMA and the American Psychological Association. 