With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region, Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army, possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments. According to industry and other sources, the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port. The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass. Both Iraq and the U.S. yesterday appeared to move closer to confrontation in their public statements. The president said he hopes to free Kuwait through economic pressure on Saddam Hussein, which continued to mount as the world's oil-consuming nations -- and, just as importantly, many of its leading oil producers -- joined together in a campaign to cut off Iraqi oil without causing global economic dislocation. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak called for an emergency meeting in Cairo today at which Arab leaders will agonize over whether to support putting a multinational army in the path of Saddam Hussein. Its army, battle-trained and wielding the most modern Soviet-made tanks and air-defense weapons, has already impressed U.S. experts with the skill and efficiency of its 2 a.m. blitzkrieg attack on Kuwait last Thursday. The prospect of facing hundreds of thousands of soldiers in the desert is daunting enough for the U.S., but Iraq's chemical arsenal adds an additional dimension to the threat. The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack, according to U.S. officials, could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia, a base in the Indian Ocean. It remained unclear precisely what force the U.S. is dispatching to meet the 100,000 or more heavily-armored Iraqi troops massed on Kuwait's border. President Bush, Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refused to disclose the size of the force they have committed. Privately, U.S. officials say the estimates for the eventual U.S. commitment of troops, which began landing at Saudi bases yesterday afternoon, go as high as 40,000, and would include a carefully-tailored mix of light and armored units that may have to remain there for weeks or months. As time passes without an Iraqi military move, the U.S. position grows stronger, military experts say. The use of chemical weapons by Iraq would make the battle conditions all the more intolerable -- necessitating gas masks and rubberized suits in an area where temperatures regularly exceed 100 degrees. By her measure, Iraq has stockpiled thousands of tons of mustard gas, a World War I chemical that burns the skin. Even the mere threat of chemical weapons may have a powerful psychological effect on troops and civilians -- especially technicians in the Saudi oil fields, who are particularly important now that the Saudis are being counted on to increase oil output significantly. If, as some industry and other officials believe, the captain demands that the Saudis honor their contractual commitment to fill the tanker, the U.S. will have to decide whether to stop the giant ship, using the awesome combat power of the nearby carrier Eisenhower and its twelve escort ships. More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each. Although the sudden U.S. moves to Saudi Arabia may seem ad-hoc, they draw on the experience of many war games, such as the one staged in Leavenworth last June by the Army Materiel Command. The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields. U.S. policy assumed then that the Saudis would not give U.S. forces basing rights, at least not in the initial stages of a conflict. The following afternoon, he and Robert Gates, the president's deputy advisor for national security; Paul Wolfowitz, Mr. Cheney's top policy aide; and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, soon to become overall commander of the growing nucleus of U.S. forces, were aloft. In Jeddah, after two hours of discussion, King Fahd, the Saudi ruler, gave his approval to the military options the U.S. officials presented. By midnight, paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, the nation's most often-alerted unit, were lining up at Pope Air Force Base in Fayetteville, N.C., to take their places on the hard, nylon-webbing seats in the transports that would carry them and their hastily-assembled gear on the long trip across the Atlantic. Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units. They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to marry up with their equipment at points where the ships arrive. Gen. Powell dismissed concerns that the early arrivals might face the greatest danger, saying that fighters and attack aircraft from the carrier Independence, believed to be in the Gulf of Oman, were close enough to the Saudi shore to provide air cover to the arriving troops. 