Tiny Third World businesses commonly repay these microloans faithfully because they crave the security of a favorable credit rating. It also looks good compared with a default rate of 17% by U.S. recipients of federally guaranteed student loans. Though microlending has been around for years, it is now booming. With the decline of communism, U.S. development groups believe they are exporting free-market economics to tiny businesses that can fuel growth in the developing world. One group of women in Cameroon received $100 from New York agency Trickle Up to start a rabbit-breeding business, but the rabbit ate her offspring, recalls Mildred Leet, co-founder of the U.S. agency. Some Third World commercial banks are taking note of poor entrepreneurs' repayment rates. Accion persuaded family-owned Multi Credit Bank of Panama City, Panama, to start making microloans two months ago. Isaac Btesh, a director and son of the founder, says the bank has lent $80,000 to 100 people so far on 60-day, rotating lines of credit -- with a 100% repayment rate. Poverty lending has such promise that Multi Credit plans to make it the bank's number one activity, ahead of trade financing, consumer loans and merchant loans, the official adds. Accion, a Cambridge, Mass.-based nonprofit international development group and a leader in the U.S. microloan movement, says it plans to increase its microlending this year to $66.5 million from $37.8 million in 1990 and $9.8 million five years ago. Accion's Ms. Romanow says the group, which serves Latin America, plans to expand the lending to a total of between $500 million and $1 billion over the next five years. CARE, New York, perhaps the world's largest private international-development group, says small economic-activity development -- primarily microlending -- is its fastest-growing portfolio. Repayment rates in most nations exceed 90%, she says. Some Third World banks, notably in Asia, have been making microloans for years. And officials at the U.S. Agency for International Development, which finances a big chunk of many private groups' overseas operations, say they support the principle of expanding poverty lending but oppose congressional efforts to mandate minimum levels. 