There, in the segregated black Georgia of four decades past, began the toughening of Clarence Thomas, nominee to the United States Supreme Court.; Abandoned by his father, driven by his hard-eyed grandfather and a band of nuns sent south to teach black children, young Clarence learned sharecropping and scholarship, hard labor and the Latin mass, and how to survive the walk home through black Savannah in his Catholic school uniform.; From these roots, he might have become one of any number of bright, activist black men to rise out of Southern poverty and press a politically aggressive liberal agenda of civil rights and affirmative action -- as did men like Thurgood Marshall, the retiring justice whose Supreme Court seat Thomas might take.; Instead, Thomas, now 43, became something else -- a hybrid product of harsh Southern history and baby-boom ambition, a proponent of personal strength over dependence, of individualism over government activism.; By the time he arrived in Washington with the Reagan administration, he had developed into a rare breed -- a black conservative so impressive to Republican presidents that he was set on the road to the highest court in the land. They see him as an independent spirit, a probable centrist on a court that has been steering rightward for several years.; The Georgia beginning; But any attempt to understand the potential successor to the revered Thurgood Marshall must begin in Georgia.; There, just the other day, Leola Williams, Thomas' mother, talked about how the force of family worked on her son:; Clarence was surrounded by all our older parents. I helped bury him.' ; When Anderson wasn't coaching Thomas, in his farm fields or on his delivery truck, he made sure the lessons continued, in the hands of the Franciscan nuns of all-black St. Benedict the Moor School.; Thomas, who had experienced racial mistreatment by white seminarians in Georgia, ultimately rejected seminary life. He said he heard a seminarian there react to the shooting of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. by saying, Good, I hope the son of a bitch dies. ; Thomas left the seminary and went north to enroll at Holy Cross College in the gritty New England factory city of Worcester, Mass.; A Southerner in New England; The Southern farm boy was forced to endure not only the harsh winters of New England, but also the chilly atmosphere of a white college just beginning to widen opportunities for blacks.; Within days of King's assassination, the school created a scholarship fund named after the civil-rights leader and stepped up the recruiting of blacks. He graduated from Holy Cross with honors and left for Yale University Law School in New Haven, Conn.; Freewheeling liberalism; He came into law school espousing liberal views from his freewheeling, unattached undergraduate days, said Harry Singleton, a black classmate, close friend and a former civil rights official in the Reagan Education Department.; But he became more conservative as he went through the process of legal education. ; Yale law students, Singleton explained, were exposed to conservative law professors with powerful minds.; I used to discuss conservative ideas with Clarence and he was interested in them, Singleton said. They were about the dangers of big government trying to solve all the ills of society and how every time you do that you take away from the liberties of the people. ; But it was Thomas Sowell, the conservative black economist now at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, whose work came to grip Thomas' mind.; Shortly after his arrival at Yale, Thomas remembered when someone gave him one of Sowell's books and I threw it in the trash because it really went against all the things we'd been indoctrinated to believe about the radical movement and the peace movement. ; But after law school, Thomas rediscovered one of Sowell's books. Danforth brought Thomas to Jefferson City, Mo., to work in the attorney general's office.; When Danforth became a U.S. senator in 1977, Thomas stayed in St. Louis to work as an assistant counsel for the Monsanto Corp., then in 1979 joined Danforth in Washington as a legislative aide.; Reagan administration officials were so impressed by Thomas and his new conservative leanings that they appointed him assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education. He steered away from lawsuits based on statistical evidence and remedies that included timetables for future hiring.; But he was unwilling to go along with more strident voices in the Reagan administration who opposed most legal remedies for discrimination, so he often felt isolated from both the administration and the civil rights establishment.; Several years ago, a top Reagan domestic adviser who wanted his coffee cup refilled at a black-tie dinner looked up and spotted a black man in a tuxedo hovering near the table. I'm Clarence Thomas. ; SUNDAY IN PERSPECTIVE: A reporter who saw Clarence Thomas at his most candid writes about the nominee's opinions, fears and frustrations.; Nomination Of Clarence Thomas; President Bush has chosen Judge Clarence Thomas of the U.S. Court of Appeals to replace Justice Thurgood Marshall, who is retiring from the Supreme Court.; Nominee's background; Age: 43; Birthplace: Savannah, Ga.; Family: Married to Virginia Lamp Thomas; he has one son, Jamal; Education: Bachelor's degree, 1971, Holy Cross College; law degree, Yale Law School, 1974; Professional experience: Missouri assistant attorney general, 1974-'77; chairman of Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 1982-'89; judge on U.S. Court of Appeals for District of Columbia since. 