There aren't many {drugs} where you can administer one course of treatment and have the disease go away and stay away for as long as four years, says Lawrence Piro, chief of cancer research at Scripps Clinic &amp; Research Foundation, La Jolla, Calif., where the drug was developed. It is without doubt the most effective treatment for hairy-cell leukemia, in terms of rapidity of response, adds Elihu H. Estey, a cancer researcher at the University of Texas-M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston. Hairy-cell leukemia, so-called because of the appearance of the cancerous cells under the microscope, affects about 6,000 people in the U.S., with 600 new cases a year. Until the mid-1980s, treatments were ineffective, and patients often died of blood problems and infections. Since then, alpha interferon, a drug sold by Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and Schering-Plough Corp. and an experimental drug called deoxycoformycin have significantly reduced death rates from hairy-cell leukemia. With the lack of toxicity and the ease with which people go into remission {with 2-CdA}, I think there's something really going on here, says Ellin Berman, a staff leukemia doctor at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York. The researchers said the drug is easy to produce and thus is likely to be less expensive than other cancer treatments. Within eight to 10 weeks, 11 of the patients had no trace of cancer in their blood or bone marrow; the 12th had a small amount remaining in the marrow, but he declined further bone marrow monitoring, Dr. Piro said. None of the patients have had a relapse; complete remission has lasted from seven to 46 months after treatment, according to the study. It's ironic that we have three active drugs for a disease that's fairly rare, but for some of the more common forms of leukemia, we don't yet have good treatments. Dr. Piro said 2-CdA has also been used effectively in initial trials to treat more common cancers, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkins lymphoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. About 50% to 60% of patients -- most of whom had failed other treatments -- responded to the drug, some with complete remission, he said. 