Nearly one-quarter of 650 officers responding to a commission survey agreed that racial bias on the part of officers toward minority citizens currently exists and contributes to a negative interaction between police and community, and in some cases may lead to the use of excessive force, the report said. A scant eight hours is devoted to cultural awareness training at the Los Angeles Police Academy, and many officers who train new recruits in the field openly perpetuate the siege mentality that alienates patrol officers from the community, the commission concluded. But the commission called for a shift away from the force's paramilitaristic, us-against-them style, and said the department must embrace the community-based policing style that encourages officers to spend less time in their cars and more time interacting with citizens in the communities they serve. This report will be a must-read for police chiefs around the country, said Hubert Williams, executive director of the Police Foundation, a Washington, D.C., law enforcement research group. Mr. Williams likened the report to the Knapp Commission, a 1970s blue-ribbon study that exposed widespread corruption in the New York Police Department and led to significant improvements there. Among the commission's recommendations are: -- A commission appointed by the mayor that oversees the department should be reorganized and strengthened, and made responsible for handling citizen complaints. It also should be reconstituted with members not linked with the current controversy, in the interest of a fresh start. -- A major overhaul of the police disciplinary system and the process used by citizens to file complaints against LAPD officers, especially in excessive force cases, is needed. The current system is skewed against complainants, by allowing officers' station-house colleagues to investigate complaints, perpetuating a code of silence among officers. -- A new community-based police force should focus on service to the public and prevention of crime as primary tasks rather than amassing arrest statistics. Of the six largest police departments in the U.S., the nation's second largest city has the fewest officers per thousand residents. Even before the commission's report was issued, community groups that monitor the LAPD noted a decline in brutality complaints. More than 80% of the black, Hispanic and Asian police officers in the force are in the entry-level ranks, the report said. But the most surprising part of the report was its recommendation that Chief Gates resign, after a transitional period in which he would begin implementing the commission's proposals. As for the recommendation that he step down, the embattled chief said he will wait until the voters sanction a move to limit a police chief's tenure. Mayor Bradley said he hopes that Chief Gates's will follow the commission's recommendations to commence the transition to a new chief of police. 