U.S. tour operators are planning to send a record 4,000 or more travelers to Antarctica, prompting calls for strict government regulation to protect penguins, other wildlife and the very fate of the frozen continent. "The number of tourists visiting Antarctica has more than tripled in the past five years," said Bruce Manheim, a Washington activist of the Environmental Defense Fund who calls existing controls inadequate. Antarctica has become a "hot" travel destination for the 1990s, beckoning older Americans seeking more adventure than Europe and hoping to see a fragile frontierland visited by only a privileged few in their youth. Particularly worrisome to critics are the plans of Ocean Cruise Lines of Fort Lauderdale to send the largest cruise ship in years to Antarctica, the 460-passenger Ocean Princess. 22. Manheim's appeal is urging the government to place strict controls on helicopter flights near wildlife sites, guidelines on tourist observation of penguins and seals, and coordination of cruise ship visits to breeding grounds. He said ships had made repeated tourist visits to the same wildlife sites, disrupting the breeding of seals, penguins and other birds. "A year after Antarctica's most significant environmental disaster, we still don't have regulations to prevent similar catastrophes," said Manheim. Military flights and small ships carrying about 100 tourists have been frequent modes of travel to Antarctica since the first tourists visited in 1958. Now, the Chilean government has opened a spartan hotel at its Teniente Marsh Station on King George island, and LanChile airlines began commercial flights to that Antarctic stop last year. "Antarctica tourism originates almost exclusively in the United States, and therefore we have the responsibility to regulate our tourism if we are to push for regulation at an international level," said Manheim. "The tourist visiting Antarctica is a determined environmentalist, an avid lover of wildlife, and I can assure you that no tourist _ not one _ has hurt or killed a bird or animal," said Lars Eric Lindblad, an Antarctic travel pioneer who will lecture aboard the Ocean Princess. 