Michael Milken, who faces insider trading charges, is seen as the Wall Street whiz kid who made "junk-bond" financing into the tool of choice for corporate raiders. In so doing, Milken, 42, transformed Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. from a minor player on Wall Street into a powerhouse and in the process made himself feared, respected and enormously wealthy. The 184-page civil complaint filed in U.S. District Court in New York against Milken, Drexel and others on Wednesday followed months of speculation about Drexel's involvement in the Ivan Boesky insider trading scandal. It was business as usual at Drexel, and Milken was still king of the junk bonds _ high-risk, high-yield notes used to finance corporate takeovers. In anticipation of a crisis, Drexel undertook a public-relations campaign starting last year to polish its image, stressing the role of junk bonds in helping small companies and downplaying their role in large takeover battles. In the years before the insider trading scandal, the financial media wrote glowingly of Milken. It had been a relatively short road for Milken, from head cheerleader at Birmingham High School in the San Fernando Valley in 1964 _ actress Sally Field and superagent Michael Ovitz were among his classmates _ to the top of the nation's financial industry. Milken reportedly pulls down $40 million a year as the head of Drexel's junk-bond operation and his personal fortune has been estimated at more than $500 million. He lives with his children and wife, Lori _ his high school sweetheart whom he married at age 22 _ in a house on the former estate of the late actor Clark Gable in suburban Encino, an upper-middle-class section of the San Fernando Valley two miles from his childhood home. After studying business at the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, Milken went to work for Drexel Firestone &amp; Co. in Philadelphia as a junior bond trader. Drexel merged with Burnham &amp; Co. in 1973 and Lambert Brussels Witter in 1976 to become today's Drexel Burnham Lambert, and Milken's job was moved to New York. In 1977, he pulled off a coup by convincing Drexel to let him move the company's junk-bond operations from Wall Street to Beverly Hills, just off swank Rodeo Drive. 