Even the scientists came to cross-purposes in designing this little world. It is the professional nature of engineers and architects to keep the outside world out. Now suddenly they had to devise ways to keep the wild world in. Consider hummingbirds, great little pollinators. In short, this small world in some cases is too small for its own good. The oxygen is breathed in by humans and animals who breathe out carbon dioxide which is breathed in by the plants and used in photosynthesis which produces more oxygen. A stream begins on an 85-foot mountain that dominates the rain forest. It then flows through the plains and grasslands of the savanna, down to the 25-foot deep ocean with its coral reef and then to the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up before it reaches the desert. The water-laden air then is drawn and climbs the mountain where natural cooling and condensing coils bring it down as rain and dew to feed the stream again. So Dr. Tony Burgess of the University of Arizona patterned the deserts after those of Baja California where the cactus and other plants have learned to live with ocean fog. "The marsh may have been one of the most fragile of the systems because of the life that lives in the mud," explains Kathy Dyhr. "But in the prototypes he found they had virtually no species extinctions except for the mosquitoes, to which everyone raised a cheer. "We've got acid rain problems, dirty air problems, and we've got carbon dioxide increasing at an alarming rate. The rain forest and its towering mountain and stream are the design of Dr. Ghillean Prance, director of the Kew Royal Botanical Gardens of London in association with the New York Botanical Garden. Plants and animals from those areas create the grasslands in Biosphere II. In all, some 3,800 species of plant and animal life are being invited to the party, and as in the original Eden, snakes. In these areas, where well-defined habitats change, scientists hope to learn how desert encroaches on more productive areas, what happens when fresh water turns brackish, what goes on when climates change. Probably the first to consider Earth and its environment as a biosphere was a Soviet scientist, V.I. Vernadsky in 1926. But they gave off oxygen, and in the process poisoned their own environment so they had to retreat into the mud. 