Nevertheless, the Iraqi formula came close enough to meeting Mr. Bush's frequent demands for an unconditional withdrawal that the U.S. will find it hard to dismiss it out of hand -- and equally hard to launch a bloody ground war while the proposal remains pending. In fact, some military officials said allied bombing likely would intensify while diplomatic maneuvering continues so that more Iraqi targets can be destroyed before a possible cease-fire begins. Lee Hamilton, for one, last night said that while the proposal has deficiencies it goes far enough that the U.S. should postpone a ground war for now while continuing military pressure in other ways. The survival of a still-potent Saddam Hussein would be a problem not only for President Bush but for many of America's chief allies, particularly Israel. And many leaders of Arab coalition partners -- Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Syria -- privately have been hoping the U.S. will proceed with the crushing ground assault on Iraqi troops that seemed imminent before the Iraqi announcement. Yet some allied Arab officials also worry about the sight of their American friends gunning down hundreds or thousands of Arab soldiers from Iraq; this may leave them as torn now as Mr. Bush. Above all, the U.S. will be unhappy that the plan would remove economic sanctions after only two-thirds of Iraqi forces are withdrawn. Those aspects of the plan might allow Saddam Hussein time to withdraw all his military gear, and to quickly rebuild his economy so that he can purchase new weapons. He'll also want a timetable for withdrawal that would force Saddam Hussein to leave much of his weaponry behind, as well as assurances that the U.N. can continue pressing Iraq to pay war reparations. But Mr. Bush also now seems caught in the gap between the formal war aims he and the United Nations have proclaimed -- which focus narrowly on Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait and the restoration of Kuwait's rulers -- and the allies' unofficial desire to do away with Saddam Hussein's regime along the way. The announcement of the peace plan in Moscow occurred only hours after Saddam Hussein had delivered a defiant speech in Baghdad in which he seemed to dare the U.S. and its allies to launch a ground attack to drive his troops out of Kuwait. The withdrawal of Iraqi forces would be monitored by countries appointed by the U.N. Security Council that aren't directly involved in the war. The eight points contained some elements that Mr. Bush had privately told Moscow just this week that he needed in any deal, including freeing of war prisoners and a timetable for withdrawal. Moreover, the administration could at least hope that the political humiliation of a withdrawal after the damage his country has endured would undercut Saddam Hussein at home and eventually cause him to be toppled from within. And it was silent on other points Mr. Bush sought, such as Iraqi help in clearing mines from Kuwait. U.S. officials have speculated all along that Saddam Hussein might choose survival over continued occupation of Kuwait when he thought his options were that stark. But for precisely that same reason, some U.S. officials have grown increasingly eager to press on with the war to finish off Iraq's military machine while the chance is available. What's more, officials suggest that they have hoped not only to drive his forces out of Kuwait but also to deliver a death blow along the way to the elite Republican Guard that have been instrumental in keeping Saddam Hussein in power. By bloodying the Guards now, the U.S. may hope to make it more difficult for Saddam Hussein to survive and cause trouble down the road, even if he is left standing when the war ends. Saddam Hussein just yesterday viciously attacked both Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Saudi Arabian King Fahd in his radio address, calling them lackeys of the U.S. and traitors to the Arab and Islamic worlds -- and virtually inviting their overthrow or slaying. Saudi leaders, in particular, don't want the war to stop until Saddam Hussein is out of power because they must share a long, thinly guarded border with an Iraq that even now could remain militarily more powerful than the thinly populated Saudi kingdom. For Israel, there also would be unhappiness if Saddam Hussein's military machine isn't further dismantled in war. For the U.S., one of the public complaints is likely to involve the failure of the plan to comply with all 12 U.N. resolutions passed to compel Iraq to leave Kuwait. The broader dilemma is that the proposal forces Mr. Bush to make a choice he had hoped to avoid: between the prospect of achieving the minimum goal of freeing Kuwait without further bloodshed, and the chance to crush President Hussein and his military might at the risk of a bloody ground war. By presenting Mr. Bush with that choice, Saddam Hussein may not only be posing an agonizing decision but finally taking a step toward splitting the extraordinary international coalition that Mr. Bush built -- many of whose members will want to accept the Iraqi withdrawal and declare victory. Increasingly Mr. Gorbachev's Kremlin, which is influenced more and more by oldline military officers and party hardliners, has seemed to want to preserve its old ally, Saddam Hussein, to ensure Soviet influence in the Middle East. 