The Jwaneng mine, on the fringes of the Kalahari desert in Botswana, is known as 'a gem in the world of gems' because it almost certainly is the richest diamond mine in the world - at least in terms of the value of the stones it yields. All this goes to show that De Beers, the South African group that dominates world trade in rough (uncut) diamonds, still has complete faith in its ability to maintain stability in the diamond market despite short-term difficulties such as those the company is experiencing with Russia. The South African group believes that its control of at least 50 per cent of world diamond production gives it a powerful base from which to negotiate with the other producers who have marketing contracts with De Beers' Central Selling Organisation, In Botswana De Beers controls half of Debswana, the company that owns the Jwaneng mine, with the government owning the rest. It, and the country's two other (smaller) diamond mines, between them account for 50 per cent of the government's revenue and 40 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. Last year the mine treated 5.8m tonnes of ore which yielded 8.546m carats of diamonds, well below the 1992 output when the 5.77m tonnes treated gave up more than 9m carats. Jwaneng's open pit has reached a depth of 190 metres. Mr Derrick Moore, the general manager, says this indicates mining in the open pit will last another 35 years - 'and then we might go underground'. If experience at De Beers' wholly-owned Finsch mine in South Africa is anything to go by, planning the underground development at Jwaneng might already have started. Unfortunately, things did not go completely as expected when underground mining started, to some extent because the development was designed by a management whose expertise was mainly in open pit mining. However, Mr Mark Button, mining superintendent, says: 'Finsch has come of age as an underground mine after two years. Finsch - named after the discoverers, Messrs Fincham and Schwabel, who stumbled across the kimberlite pipe containing the diamonds when actually they were looking for asbestos - is one of the victims of the present turmoil in the diamond market caused mainly by uncertainties about Russian exports. 