The Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho, which coordinates federal firefighting efforts, listed 7,000 to 7,500 people on the fire lines, along with 42 air tankers, 14 guide planes and 10 helicopters, spokesman Arnold Hartigan said Saturday. The largest fire in the Lower 48 states was the week-old Diamond Peak fire in Utah, which had burned 12,200 acres of forest and brush in an area 20 miles west of the Utah-Colorado border, just north of Interstate 70. Elsewhere in Utah, the Uinta Canyon fire had burned 3,850 acres 20 miles north of Roosevelt in the Ashley National Forest. Forest Service spokeswoman Cece Stewart said three helicopters scattered incendiary bombs made of chemically treated plastic balls on an unburned 200-acre area between fire lines and the main fire in an effort to stop the fire's advance. High wind also was expected in northern California, where a 2,500-acre fire near Janesville on the eastern slopes of the Sierra Nevada destroyed two mobile homes. It just blew the fire and pushed it out," said Forest Service spokesman Dave Reider. Spokesman Larry Lathrop said a helicopter battling the fire crashed Saturday about four miles southeast of Janesville. Firefighters gained the upper hand on a trio of forest fires in Colorado's drought-stricken mountains Saturday, but a new blaze of an estimated 3,000 acres in grass and timber on the eastern plains had crews scrambling to protect a subdivision in Elbert County. Forest spokesman Ed Christian said the fire was about 50 percent contained by Saturday night and that with some cooperation from the weather, crews should be able to complete their containment line by Monday. Officials in Arizona gave priority to the Marijilda fire, which had blackened 2,500 acres of forest on the north side of Mount Graham near Safford, and the Chiva fire east of Tucson, which had burned 8,300 acres in the Rincon Mountains, according to BLM spokesman Wendell Peacock. Arizona's largest fire until Saturday, in the Peloncillo Mountains south of Duncan, along the Arizona-New Mexico border, had charred 8,000 acres but was 80 percent contained. Firefighters spent an eighth day Saturday battling the lightning-caused, 8,139-acre Divide fire 50 miles northeast of Silver City in the Gila National Forest in southwestern New Mexico, U.S. Forest Service officials said. 