Mr. Kelley is in training for the Boston Marathon -- his 60th Boston Marathon. And even at the age of 83, he probably will finish ahead of a large number of the 13,000 runners expected to compete -- officially or unofficially -- on April 15. Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr. Kelley: It's incomprehensible that a man his age is doing what he's doing. Even the thought of running a course of 26 miles and 385 yards leaves some of Mr. Kelley's rivals of yesteryear gasping. Aghast is more like it, says Leslie Pawson, 86, a three-time Boston champion who ran against Mr. Kelley half a century ago. John Adelbert Kelley is a throwback to a time when marathoners did it for glory and cab fare. A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year -- as he has been for 15 years. Two state troopers will run alongside the 5-foot-6, 130-pound Mr. Kelley into Boston so he won't be trampled by groupies, as he calls them, clamoring to shake his hand. Last year, five Japanese runners were waved away by the bodyguards, as they sidled up to the old celebrity during the race. Though he isn't the oldest person ever to enter the Boston Marathon, Mr. Kelley is the oldest to run it. Of course, Mr. Kelley -- not to be confused with the other John Kelley, who won the Boston Marathon in 1957 -- isn't the runner he was in 1935 when he won the race, in 2 hours, 32 minutes, 7 seconds. When John Kelley first toed the line in 1928, George Bush wasn't yet in kindergarten, Joe DiMaggio was an unknown and Nike was the winged goddess of victory, not a running shoe. In those days, Mr. Kelley recalls, he ran in black leather high-jumping shoes that he cut open at the toes with a razor blade. Today, of course, the Boston Marathon is a big deal, covered by TV from start to finish and offering $402,000 altogether in prize money. The winners get a medal and $55,000, says Mr. Kelley. What that means, explains Kenneth Cooper, the physician who wrote Aerobics and several sequels and is now at work on a book on elderly athletes, is that Johnny has the body of a man 23 years younger. On the stress test the clinic gives, Mr. Kelley holds the endurance record for his age group. A mechanic for Boston Edison Co. before he retired in 1972, Mr. Kelley started running in the evenings after work more than six decades ago. In 1928, when he was 21, he entered his first Boston Marathon but didn't finish. Mr. Kelley well knows the jagged course from Hopkinton to downtown Boston: The first challenge comes five miles into the race, where a set of little hills can get a psyched runner to waste energy charging up the slopes. Though still going strong, Mr. Kelley acknowledges the marathon gets tougher each year. He used to start preparing in earnest at the end of January. After his morning run, he spends a couple of hours painting (still lifes and Cape Cod scenes), a hobby he took up about 25 years ago. Unlike many runners, Mr. Kelley doesn't bother with stretching exercises before he runs in the morning. He isn't particular about brands of shoes ( I wear them all ) or what he eats ( I never eat broccoli, but I love steak and ice cream. ) Mr. Kelley aims to run till he is at least 100 years old. He's a strange man, says Laura Kelley, in awe of her husband's vigor. The 82-year-old Mrs. Kelley adds, I just try to stay in his shadow, but I have a hard time even doing that. In a rare moment of reflection, Mr. Kelley explains what makes him tick: I paint because I like it. 