Rescuers crawled through collapsed homes and shops today looking for more victims of a tornado that carved a 3-mile stretch of destruction, killing 17 people, injuring 463 and leaving 1,000 homeless. "It's like taking six to 10 city blocks and putting them in a blender and putting it on liquefy," said rescue worker Bob Caraway, whose specialty is cave rescues. The other tornadoes caused at least 19 injuries and far-flung property damage. In Pennsylvania, the weather service said it received unconfirmed reports of a tornado that turned over a car and knocked down trees and power lines near Gettysburg. Elsewhere: _In Georgia, 19 people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people were evacuated after a tornado strus.C., and a tornado toppled trees, downed power lines and damaged 20 houses near Greenwood, S.C. No injuries were reported in either state. _Tornadoes caused minor property damage in Mississippi, Kentucky and Indiana. _In West Virginia, high winds believed to be tornadoes swept Jefferson County early today, overturning trailers, blowing roofs off homes and downing power lines, authorities said. Four people were injured, two seriously. _Heavy thunderstorms destroyed at least a dozen homes in Alorton, Ill., killing one person and injuring 20 others, five seriously, authorities said. The tornado struck Huntsville with virtually no warning Wednesday afternoon as the city's streets grew busy with the approach of rush hour. The National Weather Service had issued a tornado watch earlier in the day, but did not issue a more urgent tornado warning until 4:39 p.m. A watch means a tornado is considered possible, while a warning means a tornado is believed to exist. Robert Moder said this morning that 463 people were injured by the twister, which plowed through a school and rural areas as well as a shopping mall and adjacent apartments. Police Chief Richard Ottman initially put the number of dead at 19, but his clerk, Kitty Whitworth, later said the death toll was lowered to 17 after police confirmed the count of bodies. Most of the dead were in apartments, stores or cars. A worker at a building owned by the Madison County Jaycees said 42 people were staying there early today, and described the mood of the survivors as "shock, mostly, and disbelief." The tornado was Alabama's deadliest since a 1975 twister killed 22 people in Birmingham, said Danny Cooper, state emergency management director in Montgomery. Along a highway near a destroyed apartment complex, cars were flipped and smashed into telephone poles and crushed by trees. "It came in with a huge roar, an enormous amount of water, and it just started shaking and tearing at everything it could get hold of," said real estate broker Ike Carroll, who was in his car. Heavy overhead power lines "started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip," Carroll said. At least two other tornadoes were reported in Alabama, injuring at least three people in addition to the Huntsville total. Thomas Farr was driving on Interstate 85 when the tornado hit. 