IT IS ironic that there is an unprecedented, greedy rush for diamonds by miners in Angola and Canada precisely at a time when the diamond business is in turmoil and questions are inevitably being asked about the ability of the world's most successful cartel to keep its tight grip on the market. In Canada's Northwest Territories, the discovery of 81 small diamonds, some of gem quality, has sparked the biggest rush to stake mining claims in the history of the North American industry. More than Dollars 1m-worth of gem diamonds a day are being smuggled out of that country for sale in Antwerp. This rise of illegal mining, particularly in the Cuango region, which produces 80 per cent of Angola's diamonds and some of its highest-quality gem stones, started in May, 1991, after the peace accord which allowed freedom of movement for the first time in 16 years. The onset of the dry season and the fall in river levels from the end of May this year has encouraged what De Beers, the South African group that dominates the world diamond business, describes as 'a sudden and unprecedented explosion in the supply of illicit Angolan diamonds reaching the market'. But the cartel has ensured that rough (uncut) diamond prices have risen steadily since the 1930s - even when in the depths of the 1981-86 recession the price of a top-quality, one carat gem diamond slumped in the retail market from Dollars 60,000 to Dollars 10,000. The cartel is organised by De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organisation, which markets about 80 per cent of the world's rough diamonds. Apart from De Beers' own production from Namibia and South Africa, the CSO handles rough gem diamonds from Angola, Australia, Botswana, Russia, Tanzania and Zaire. The CSO has been mopping up as many of the smuggled Angolan diamonds as possible to stop havoc being created in a business already suffering severely from soggy demand in the US and Japan, the two biggest markets, which share about two-thirds of demand between them. De Beers releases a controlled stream of rough diamonds to the market through 'sights' offered by the CSO ten times a year to about 160 selected buyers. Mr Harry Oppenheimer, whose family effectively controls both De Beers and its sister group, the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa, was defending the cartel again last week at the formal opening of the R1.1bn Venetia diamond mine in the Transvaal. 'What the CSO for many years has done successfully, is to operate a buffer pool, stocking diamonds in bad times and liquidating its stocks when demand is in excess of the level of supply. But De Beers makes huge profits from its diamond business - a record Dollars 1.24bn in 1990 and more than Dollars 1bn last year. The CSO's diamond stocks, worth under Dollars 1bn in 1980 rose to Dollars 1.9bn by 1984. Hundreds of diamond investment trusts and traders were bankrupted at that time and Australia and Zaire challenged De Beers' near-monopoly. De Beers has taken good care that merchant stocks have never again been built for speculative reasons, frequently going to the banks, the potential financiers of stockpiling operations, to 'educate' them about the way the diamond market works. But in the meantime Mr Julian Ogilvie Thompson, De Beers' chairman, insists that the CSO's control of the diamond market is not slipping. 'By mopping up Angolan supplies we can say that more of the world's rough diamonds are passing through the CSO than ever before,' he says. The future of De Beers' diamond operations in Namibia were discussed with the government there yesterday. 