In that spirit, one of the latest to join the parade of let-me-tell-you-my-side authors is Robert H. Bork, the former appeals court judge who was nominated to the Supreme Court by President Reagan but was rejected by the Senate. But at a preview-of-coming-attractions press briefing at the annual convention of American Booksellers Assn. in Washington over the weekend, Bork -- the target of the first all-out, national political campaign to defeat a Supreme Court nominee -- insisted that his book was more about the general tendency to run law into politics than about his own particular unhappy experience. His unsuccessful bid for a seat on the nation's highest court forms only a part of his book, Bork said. By politicizing the courts, Bork elaborated, Americans have eaten away at the people's right to legislate the laws we want to live by. Both sides, Bork said, regard the court as in large part not a legal institution, but a political body. Bork's constitutional expertise was one of the qualities that Reagan said figured strongly in his decision to nominate Bork for the Supreme Court and to support Bork's decision to tough out his bitter, ultimately unsuccessful five-month fight for the position in 1987. Whereas the Constitution specified that laws were to be made by legislators who were elected by the people, not judges appointed by the President, Bork said, a lot of Americans now simply assume that the courts should produce results they like rather than sticking to the Constitution. 'The Great Temptation' Though without its subtitle, The Political Seduction of the Law, a book called The Tempting of America does sound rather like a collection of regional dessert recipes, Bork maintains that mass assumption explains the great temptation, expecting political results from the courts. In his own confirmation hearings, many senators wanted political results from the courts, Bork said. On the matter of Bork's leanings on possible Supreme Court action on the abortion issue, I was told by two Republican senators that they would vote against me because I might vote to overturn Roe against Wade, Bork said. But this tempting, or political manipulation of the courts, long predated his attempt to secure a seat on the Supreme Court, Bork said. In large part, Bork blasts law schools for undermining what he describes as constitutional legitimacy. Among consequences of this trend toward politicization of the courts, Bork said, is that we may expect (judicial) confirmation battles that are increasingly bitter. Constitutional law, in short, Bork said, has come to be seen as a political weapon. Book on Legal Theory Now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, Bork said he has devoted the last 1 1/2 years to research, lectures and to writing his book. Bork challenged. 