Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudi border, today sought peace on another front by promising to withdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers captured during the Iran-Iraq war. President Bush on Tuesday said the United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's Red Sea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route. President Bush today denounced Saddam's "ruinous policies of war," and said the United States is "striking a blow for the principle that might does not make right." The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at fever pace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force camped out in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust by Iraq. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to 180 days without seeking congressional approval. _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said special ambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with the governments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries. Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations, is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regular news briefing today. _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraq and Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-rich sultanate. ABC quoted an Iraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans in Iraq are "restrictees" who will stay there until the crisis ends. _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children and invalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Iraq has agreed to allow all 880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road route through Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border. _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwait appear to be deteriorating. Banks remained closed. _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraq would retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel members if they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blocked supplies from Iraq and Kuwait. Bush then sent U.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massed nearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves. The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today its troops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush from Iraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. Bush, however, says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to the gulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam to withdraw his army. The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exports of oil and imports of food and military supplies. Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricade now in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba "if it is a hole through which commerce flows" in and out of Iraq. In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of "Desert Shield," the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqi soldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil and money. Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million. 