In this investigative report AL-WATAN AL-'ARABI reveals the details of this network, the secret meetings it held in Tehran, Amsterdam, and Beirut, the names of those who planned and carried out the assassination, the centers where they were trained, their affiliations, and how this leads to exposing dangerous secrets which made the Abu-Nidal group send threat letters to those in charge of the investigation. A few days ago, Palestinian Ahmad Mahmud 'Abd-al-Karim, a prominent FRC official, arrived in Lebanon from Finland on the special mission of following up the investigations the Lebanese authorities are conducting with the Palestinians from the Abu-Nidal group who are accused of the assassination of Jordanian First Secretary Na'ib al-Ma'ayitah in Beirut on 29 January. Reports say that some officials in the Lebanese security organs have links with the Abu-Nidal group. Reports mention that the first steps in the investigation have revealed that the FRC planned and carried out the assassination in coordination with the Jordanian fundamentalist Islamic Mobilization Youth Organization [IMYO] which is financed by Iran. The IMYO was exposed in Jordan by Jordanian authorities on 17 August 1992 when the Jordanian security bodies confiscated weapons and ammunition the organization had been hiding in Jordan to be used to destablize the regime and security in the country. The security information the investigators have collected on the al-Ma'ayitah assassination shows that as soon as the IMYO was exposed, Jordanian fundamentalist elements belonging to various organizations such as Muhammad's Army, the Islamic Liberation Army, and the IMYO and others moved to neighboring Arab countries. The official in charge of the Jordanian elements was Shakir Abu-Jami', a Jordanian national wanted by authorities in his country and one of the most prominent members of the Jordanian fundamentalist Muhammad Army Organization. Iran managed to recruit FRC members to work in the Jordanian fundamentalist extremist organizations by taking advantage of the hostility the Abu-Nidal group has harbored against Jordan and its regime and king ever since the group was expelled from the country. Detailing this cooperation that lead to al-Ma'ayitah's assassination, the security sources note that the al-Ramlah al- Bayda' area in Beirut contained a secret headquarters for Walid Khalid, the FRC official spokesman who was assassinated in the Lebanese capital on 30 July 1992. These meetings were conducted in the presence of an FRC official called Amjad 'Ata, a Lebanese member of Abu-Nidal group named Tha'ir, and a Jordanian IMYO official from the Idkaydik family. But why did the Abu-Nidal group and the IMYO choose to assassinate Na'ib al-Ma'ayitah and not any other Jordanian official in the Beirut embassy. To carry out the assassination, an intensive training course was conducted for the Palestinians Bassam 'Atiyah and Yusuf 'Adwani in a secret center run by Abu-Nidal group in Buq'atah in Lebanon's al- Shuf area under the supervision of a Palestinian expert in assassinations called A. al-'Umayri [not further identified]. Confirmed security information says a Jordanian fundamentalist took part in the assassination of al-Ma'ayitah. Jordanian security officials traveled to Lebanon and cooperated with Lebanese officers in the investigations that led to revealing all the details and the arrest of more than 30 members of Abu-Nidal group in Jordan. It also hastened to send one of its officials to Lebanon to follow the investigation and try to lessen its repercussions out of fear that al-Ma'ayitah's assassination may be one of the fatal mistakes committed by the FRC and may negatively affect the organization's future in Lebanon and Jordan. 