The point at issue in Senate debate on a new immigration bill was whether illegal aliens should be counted in the process that will reallocate House seats among states after the 1990 census. There could be enough of them to shift seats away from at least five states to Sun Belt states with large numbers of illegal residents. The government made no attempt to count them out in the redistricting process; indeed, the two previous administrations decided that the Constitution required that the census cover illegal aliens along with citizens. The Senate has passed an immigration bill including an amendment that would cut illegal aliens from the redistricting numbers, but it is not likely to clear Congress before the next year's national head count. Richard Shelby, D-Ala., proposed, and won, the immigration bill amendment that is supposed to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process. It would give Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher the assignment of adjusting the census figures so that illegal aliens don't count for purposes of redistributing House seats. Shelby's amendment says only that the secretary is to "make such adjustments in total population figures as may be necessary, using such methods and procedures as the secretary determines feasible and appropriate" to keep illegal aliens from being counted in congressional reapportionment. Opponents of the Shelby amendment, led by Sen. The Constitution itself says the apportionment of the House is to be determined on the basis of "the whole number of free persons," excluding Indians and counting every five slaves as three persons. That was amended after the Civil War to say that the apportionment of House seats will be based on "the whole number of persons in each state." Opponents of the amendment said that showed the authors of both documents wanted everybody counted for purposes of apportionment. Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, said the question should be put squarely to the Supreme Court. He said it is unfair to count illegal aliens in reapportionment. "Then, for the first time, we will let the Supreme Court of the United States decide something that we need an answer to..." 