A colossal tunneling machine is boring beneath the English Channel from the white cliffs of Dover, pursuing a dream born in Napoleon's time that is coming true at last. Tunneling speed at the Dover end is less than 15 feet an hour and the machine boring from the geologically more complex French end moves even slower, which is why the tunnel will not open until 1993. State-owned British Rail will not commit itself to building a high-speed link from London to the tunnel in time to make the three-hour journey a reality in 1993. Eurotunnel, the Anglo-French consortium that will own the tunnel, is urging British Rail to speed its plans. British stations, bridges and tunnels are not built for the tall loads commonly carried across the channel. Digging began in 1882 but was halted by British fears of French invasion through the tunnel. Britain's entry into the European Economic Community engendered a spirit of unity and the digging began again in 1974, but two years later a new British government shelved the project. With trade barriers among the 12 EEC countries set to fall in 1992, Colin Kirkland, technical director of Eurotunnel's on the British side, says the tunnel will be completed this time. Also, the governments signed a tunnel treaty in February 1986 and both would have to agree to cancellation. Eurotunnel ordered a management shakeup and threatened Trans-Manche Link, the consortium of 10 British and French engineering companies building the tunnel, with penalties of $25 million if the diggers did not pass the three-mile mark by Nov. The tunnel, 80-130 feet below the seabed, was 2 miles into the channel from this end Oct. At its peak, the project will employ about 11,000 workers and 11 tunneling machines. Construction of the two one-way train tunnels begins in December. Tunneling machines simultaneously dig, remove rock and put up tunnel walls. The tunnels are to be completed in 1991, then the railroad tracks will be laid. Cars and trucks will drive onto the shuttle trains and be able to stay in their vehicles or stroll about during the 35-minute tunnel passage. 