A review of campaign records by The Times shows that Keating, his companies and a circle of about 75 family members, associates and employees have showered more than $700,000 in campaign contributions on three dozen federal and state politicians over the last six years. Keating's contributions have come under increased scrutiny since his company, American Continental Corp. of Phoenix, filed for protection from creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on April 13 and Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan, its principal subsidiary, was seized by federal regulators the next day. Critics charge that Keating and associates have coordinated their contributions in a deliberate effort to buy influence with powerful politicians. As evidence, they cite donations of about $300,000 to five U.S. senators who went to bat in April, 1987, for Keating in two unusual private meetings with savings and loan regulators. 'Concerned' About Seizure And one of those senators, Democrat Alan Cranston of California, said Friday that he intervened again a month ago by urging federal regulators to allow Keating to sell his embattled S&amp;L to a group headed by former Republican Rep. He and the other senators denied that Keating's contributions influenced their actions on behalf of Lincoln. It's absolutely clear to me that Mr. Keating and his cohorts had lots of help from the highest quarters, both financially and politically, said Joseph W. Cotchett Jr., an attorney representing American Continental bondholders who may have lost $200 million as a result of the bankruptcy filing. Many of the recipients of Keating's largess have been in positions to help him in his business affairs and his escalating encounters with savings and loan regulators. As chairman of American Continental, a Phoenix real estate development firm, he acquired Lincoln, which is based in Irvine, in early 1984 and began transforming it from a traditional thrift into a more freewheeling S&amp;L. Federal regulators, outraged by losses at similar S&amp;Ls across the country, spent much of the last three years poring over the books of Lincoln and American Continental. The next day, federal regulators seized Lincoln, claiming that Keating and American Continental were operating the S&amp;L in an unsafe and unsound manner. The recipients of contributions from Keating's circle include liberal Democrats like Cranston and former presidential hopeful Walter Mondale. For Keating, campaign contributions are one way that the American political system is made more responsive to its constituents. Today, Keating contends that his contributions merely give him a fighting chance against hostile regulators who drove American Continental into bankruptcy proceedings because they didn't like his unconventional business strategies and his outspoken criticism of the regulatory structure. We support and campaign for the political leaders we believe will represent the best of American virtues, he told reporters last month. And he has done it in a big way, with the help of his firms, family members, business associates and employees. In the last five years, state and federal campaign records show: * More than $100,000 has gone to Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz.), both of Keating's home state. Congressmen from Arizona also have fared well, including Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), who has received $20,950 while representing the district Keating lives in. * More than $52,000 has gone to the two California senators -- Cranston and Republican Pete Wilson -- who represent Lincoln's home base. John Glenn (D-Ohio) has picked up $34,500 from Keating's circle. Keating was born in Ohio, and American Continental is incorporated there. * Nearly $166,000 has gone to 11 members of the Senate and House banking committees, where deregulation of the savings and loan industry was conceived and implemented in recent years, much to the dismay of some regulators. George Deukmejian's campaign coffers in the last four years. * Keating and associates pumped $80,000 into the California Republican Party last fall alone. Likewise, four years later, Keating did not contribute to President George Bush's campaign, although American Continental gave $80,000 to the California Republican Party. This money, which does not come under federal or state contribution limitations, was used for voter-registration and get-out-the-vote efforts that benefited Bush. One former executive of an American Continental subsidiary who requested anonymity said he made his only political donation ever -- $500 -- in 1987 because he was made aware by Keating that Sen. Walter Zelman, executive director of California Common Cause, said it isn't uncommon to see a large number of executives at a major firm contributing to a number of politicians. Timing of Contributions In his case, he said, regulators are raising the campaign contribution issue to hold senators and congressmen in check while the federal agencies deal with Lincoln Savings. A fund-raiser on March 23, 1987, netted Riegle more than $70,000, which Riegle returned a year later after Keating's contributions became a public issue. Riegle was one of five senators who met with regulators on April 9, 1987, to find out why a routine examination of Lincoln's financial condition was taking more than a year instead of the normal two to three months. Never before, top regulators say, had they seen an S&amp;L owner who had enough political pull to get five U.S. senators to meet with federal examiners about a problem. At an earlier meeting, Cranston, McCain, DeConcini and Glenn had met with Edwin J. Gray, head of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Gray later claimed that the four senators tried to cut a deal for Keating. Gottlieb said Riegle returned the money in March, 1988, only because local papers had written about it and the senator did not want it to become a campaign issue. The suit alleges that Keating used politicians -- as well as former government employees he hired or retained -- to keep regulators at bay while he continued to sell junk bonds to unsophisticated depositors. 