In an interview with the media on the last day of his stay in Australia, he went so far as to say that Chinese officials do not understand the international status and importance of Hong Kong so their criticism of him does not conform to reality, adding that Hong Kong is an international asset as well as China's asset. Though he repeatedly argued in his defense that he did not go to Australia in search of support for his constitutional package, the fact he talked a great deal about his constitutional package and requested Australia to pass on genuine democracy to Hong Kong reveals that he visited Australia to seek international support for this constitutional package, of which the first part will be put to the vote, after his constitutional package had drawn sharp criticism and came in for questioning at the British Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee hearings. In reponse, Patten showed his ignorance and arrogance, once again proving that the British Government is bent on making the Hong Kong issue an international one before evacuating Hong Kong and changing Hong Kong into an independent or semi-independent political entity, to extend the influence of its colonial rule. <H5> Sovereignty Over Hong Kong Cannot Be Evaded </H5> Ostensibly, some people feel Governor Patten's remarks, quoted at the beginning of this article, were made in praise of Hong Kong and in defense of Hong Kong's international status and its importance. In saying Hong Kong is an international asset, Patten intentionally evaded the problem of to whom Hong Kong belongs. According to Patten, since Hong Kong is an international asset, it belongs to the international community, namely, it is shared by every country in the world or at least it is an independent or semi-independent political entity, over which China cannot exercise sovereignty. Does this not clearly show that China's sovereignty over Hong Kong was evaded or even denied? How can China's sovereignty over Hong Kong be evaded! These sonorous and forceful remarks most vividly highlight and express the common desire of the Chinese people, including Hong Kong compatriots. <H5> Attempt To Turn Hong Kong into International Wrestling Ring </H5> Before the Chinese people, who refuse to be bullied again, Patten's attempt to evade and deny the fact that Hong Kong belongs to China by saying Hong Kong is an international asset is of no avail. They tried to change Hong Kong into an international political wrestling ring in a bid to throw Hong Kong into confusion, cripple Hong Kong's superiority as an international financial center, and rely on international forces to prevent China regaining sovereignty over Hong Kong. Patten's allegation that the Chinese side does not understand Hong Kong's international status is entirely nonsense. How can Patten be compared with the Chinese Government where the understanding of Hong Kong's international status and its importance are concerned. It is because the Chinese Government has a profound and accurate understanding of Hong Kong's past and present state, and its international status, that it was able to advance a series of principles and policies including one country, two systems, allowing Hong Kong people to administer Hong Kong and enjoy a high degree of autonomy, and so on to solve Hong Kong problems. The fact that the Chinese Government included the series of principles and policies into the Sino-British Joint Declaration, which was made known to the world, giving them concrete form and putting them on a legal basis in the Basic Law, vividly indicates that the Chinese Government has a penetrating understanding of Hong Kong's international status. Hong Kong is ranked among the biggest international cities and has become one of the international economic, trade, financial, and shipping centers but this will never change the fact that it is part of Chinese territory. By falsely alleging that the Chinese side does not understand Hong Kong's international status, he obviously was trying to shift public attention, cheat the media, and lure the international community into meddling in Hong Kong affairs, thus finally attaining the goal of internationalizing the Hong Kong issue. <H3> The British Side Has Attempted To Prolong Colonial Rule for a Long Time </H3> Internationalizing the Hong Kong issue is one of the British Government's important plans to continue its colonial rule over Hong Kong after 1997 and is also one of its concentrated examples of going back on its word after signing the Sino-British Joint Declaration. What Patten has said and done since he arrived in Hong Kong, including the international card, has been designed to meticulously carry through the third step laid down by the British Government. During his recent trip to Australia, apart from saying that Hong Kong was an international asset, he claimed that for various countries to support Hong Kong in expanding democracy is not equivalent to interfering in China's internal affairs. He also called on the international community to see to it that China honor its commitment after 1997 and alleged that Britain bears a moral responsibility for Hong Kong, and so on. Nevertheless, it is internationally accepted that while the Hong Kong issue is a matter for both China and Britain before 1997, it is purely a Chinese internal affair after 1997. 