The Maoist Shining Path guerrillas who dominate Peru's Upper Huallaga River Valley have brought their own law and order to a cocaine-corrupted, violence-ridden region. In a rare conversation with reporters, a Shining Path political officer, who spoke only on condition he not be identified, gave an example of the kind of law the guerrillas have laid down: "Do not steal so much as a needle or thread and return what you borrow." Peru's elected officials have painted the Shining Path insurgents as lunatic killers. But here in the jungle-cloaked Upper Huallaga Valley, the world's largest source of coca leaf, the Shining Path _ "Sendero Luminoso" in Spanish _ enjoys the support of tens of thousands of farmers because the rebels protect them against a U.S.-funded coca eradication program. The rebels charge coca farmers a "tax" of 10 to 15 percent on the earnings from the sale of their crops to drug traffickers, who process the leaf into paste and sell it to Colombian cocaine dealers. They say they feel protected from the violence of drug gangs, corrupt local officials and "abusive" police. "Why do you think people have joined the Shining Path? For the coca and for revenge," said Carlos Ferrer, a taxi driver who travels the road between Tingo Maria and Aucayacu. "When the government began trying to wipe out coca, police came and mistreated people. They robbed peasants; they raped their women." "A cop in the Huallaga Valley expects to be bribed," said a senior Interior Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity. Official corruption is a problem throughout Peru, but in the Huallaga Valley it seems rampant. "What I've heard is that if you want to be named a teacher in the valley," said Feeley, "it's three months salary as payment. The Shining Path has been quick to kill local officials they deemed to be corrupt, according to residents of the valley. "If the Shining Path has the image of an organization that's fighting corruption in a very corrupt place, that's going to win them some points," Feeley said. 