Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, said the Senate Judiciary Committee, in confirming four justices without learning how they felt about abortion, has given them a free ride and should be tougher in ferreting out Thomas' views.; The failure to give an answer may cause me and others to be unwilling to vote for his confirmation, Metzenbaum said on CBS This Morning. ; Sen. I do not think it is appropriate to ask a nominee the ultimate question as to how he is going to decide a specific case, Specter said.; I will not support yet another Reagan-Bush Supreme Court nominee who remains silent on a woman's right to choose, and then ascends to the court to weaken that right, said Metzenbaum, the only member of the Judiciary Committee who voted against Thomas' nomination to the Circuit Court of Appeals to the District of Columbia.; Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said in the past few months alone the Supreme Court is throwing out past decisions, and I think it is legitimate to ask Judge Thomas, what do you think of settled law, like Roe vs. Wade (legitimatizing abortion), what do you think of a woman's right to privacy, free speech issues, issues of freedom of religion. ; Civil rights groups have opposed Thomas on grounds he was insensitive to the concerns of minorities and the elderly as chairman of the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission in the 1980s.; The fact that he is an African-American should not be a basis for avoiding very careful scrutiny of his civil rights record, said Julius L. Chambers, director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund.; While some Democrats immediately blasted the nomination, the party's biggest guns held their fire.; Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden, D-Del.; Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine; and Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif.; Thomas said he looked forward to the confirmation process and to be an example to those who are where I was, and to show them that, indeed, there is hope. ; Thomas declined to answer questions about his legal views until his hearings.; WHAT'S NEXT?; Now that President Bush has nominated Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, the next step is up to the Senate.; (box)The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to begin confirmation hearings in September, after the August recess.; (box)After the committee makes a recommendation, the nomination will be voted on by the full Senate.; (box)If confirmed promptly, Thomas could be on the Supreme Court by the time it begins hearing cases in October.; Source: Mercury News Wire Services; CLARENCE THOMAS; Born: June 23, 1948, in Pinpoint, Ga.; Education: B.A. from Holy Cross College, 1971; J.D. from Yale Law School, 1974.; Career:; (box) 1974-'77: assistant attorney general, state of Missouri; (box) 1977-'79: attorney, Monsanto Co.; (box) 1979-'81: legislative assistant to Sen. 