1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks with Kuwait on Iraqi grievances over oil pricing, Kuwaiti war loans to Iraq, and Iraqi claims on Kuwaiti territory. President Bush orders U.S. economic embargo against Iraq. 4 _ Iraq announces new military government for Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. 5 _ Kuwait's new Iraqi-installed government claims Iraqi troops begin pulling out of Kuwait, but United States skeptical. In Saudi Arabia, U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney confers with Saudi leaders about defending the oil kingdom against any Iraqi attack. 7 _ Bush orders deployment of U.S. combat troops and warplanes to Saudi Arabia. 8 _ Iraq declares Kuwait has been annexed. 9 _ American troops take up position in Saudi Arabia's oil-producing province. Iraq closes its borders for foreigners, trapping thousands of Americans and other Westerners in Iraq and Kuwait. 10 _ Twelve of 20 Arab League states vote to send all-Arab military force to join Americans in defense of Saudi Arabia. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein urges Arabs to sweep "emirs of oil" from power in gulf states. 12 _ Saddam says he is ready to resolve the gulf crisis if Israel withdraws from territories it occupies. King Hussein of Jordan secretly meets with Saddam in Baghdad. 15 _ Saddam offers to withdraw from Iran territories and release prisoners of war in bid to with favor with Tehran against the United States. 16 _ Bush pressed King Hussein to close Iraq's access to the sea through Aqaba, Jordan, but Hussein indicated Bush made little headway. 17 _ Bush has decided to call up military reserves to meet shortages of doctors, cargo handlers and other specialists in the gulf crisis. 18 _ A U.S. frigate fired warning shots across the bow of an Iraqi oil tanker in the Gulf of Oman and U.S. forces briefly went to battle stations over the incident. 19 _ Saddam offers to free all foreigners in Iraq and Kuwait if the United States promises to withdraw its forces from Saudi Arabia and guarantee that an international embargo will be lifted. 20 _ Iraq announces it has carried out a plan to move Western hostages to vital military installations to use as human shields to deter any U.S. attack and warned its people not to try to hide any of the thousands of foreigners trapped in the country. 21 _ Arab and Western nations condemn Saddam's threats against hostages and continue adding armed forces to the region. 