The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait's ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods. Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food and other goods from going in. The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation. Though they insist they aren't trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him in retaliation. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq's ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a depression and the rest of the world into an economic crisis. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling on Arabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America's close ties with Israel. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it won't allow Iraq's dangerous army to take control of Jordan's long border with Israel. Iraq's third attack option would be to start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S. If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein. But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must. Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein's proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt. U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. The unpredictability of Iraq's leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. 