They were cleared of suspicion.; It's a polygraph test, an examination by that simple machine that supposedly detects the lies of those who submit to its cold wires and straps.; Believers in the polygraph include 2,000 polygraph examiners, plus criminologists, attorneys, police departments and the CIA.; They say their tests work because when people lie, their anxiety and fear of being caught involuntarily cause changes in their heartbeats and the way they breathe and sweat. They say it's a mistake to equate fear and distress with guilt.; Wouldn't it be nice if you had a simple test to prove deception? said David Lykken, professor of psychology at the University of Minnesota and a nationally known polygraph expert. But we aren't made like Pinocchio. ; The public usually hears about polygraph tests when somebody famous takes one, often in situations where it's one person's word against another. Polygraphers can be sly and manipulative in the interest of producing an accurate test. Two to four questions are directly relevant to the issue at hand -- Did you steal the $400? ; These questions are mixed with others that are less relevant but help the examiner analyze the responses -- Do you live in California? or Have you ever stolen anything in your life? ; Then the examiner interprets the test and pronounces the subject truthful or deceptive.; The examiner also looks for clues to deception -- movement at this question, sweating at that one, a pause or a blink.; More 'art' than science?; Candidly, there's a lot of art that goes into it, said Paul Minor, former FBI chief of polygraphs, who tested John DeLorean and Anita Hill.; Critics say there's too much art involved and not enough science.; The highly trained examiner is relying on their skill as an interrogator, said Oakland labor lawyer Brad Seligman, who successfully opposed pre-employment polygraph tests in 1989 at an electronics store chain. The guilty person is going to be afraid of getting caught, while the innocent person is afraid of being wrongly accused. ; But veteran San Jose polygrapher George Harman said anxiety and nervousness do not affect his results.; The problem is when you have a person with not enough nervousness, Harman said. You can get an inconclusive test result. ; Pathological liars; Studies also have been done by polygraphers to prove that pathological liars and psychopaths have no advantage because both types know they're lying and neither wants to get caught, said David Raskin, a polygraph examiner and University of Utah psychologist.; Polygraph examiners claim accuracy rates as high as 95 percent. Guilty people who pass the test leave undetected.; Those accuracy claims are challenged by polygraph opponents, who point to studies done by polygraphers themselves that say an innocent person has as much as a 50-50 chance of failing. Other studies show more accurate results for guilty people, saying they are correctly identified 79 percent of the time or better.; One of the most famous accuracy studies cited by polygraph advocates was conducted in 1969 by psychologist Philip Bersh for the U.S. Department of Defense.; 90 percent agreement; A panel of lawyers reviewed evidence (other than the polygraph test) against 400 criminal suspects, then concluded whether the suspects were innocent or guilty. Results were matched against the suspects' polygraphs, and in 90 percent of the cases, they agreed.; There isn't any single study that resolves the controversy when one wants to know the accuracy of the polygraph in the real world, said Frank Horvath, president of the American Polygraph Association and professor of criminology at Michigan State University at East Lansing.; Both sides expect the controversy to go on for as long as it takes science to come up with the perfect lie detector. 