That decisive contest may have begun last night, as M1-A1 tanks of the Army's Third Armored Division swept eastward across southern Iraq in a driving rainstorm to pummel and defeat a Guard division. Pentagon officials said that early reports from the field indicated that U.S. forces captured or neutralized a Republican Guard mechanized division -- that is, one with mainly artillery and light armored vehicles. After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said. Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that he acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq. That is precisely what he attempted to do in a radio address yesterday in which he congratulated his soldiers for standing up to a 30-nation coalition assembled by the U.S. Mr. Bush now has plenty of cheerleaders urging him on in the humiliation of Saddam Hussein, even among those who doubted the wisdom of the war in the first place. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), who last month opposed the congressional resolution authorizing war, said, I think that the president would make a terrible mistake if he allowed Saddam Hussein to be in the position where he could declare to his own people some sort of victory, and there is no sign President Bush intends to do that. The more immediate problem for U.S. officials, though, is the final confrontation with Saddam Hussein's 90,000-man-strong Republican Guard. Despite weeks of fierce bombing, officials say, the Guard unitsespecially their tank divisions -- remain strong. According to one Pentagon estimate, less than 30% of the Guard's T-72 tanks were knocked out of commission by the air war, primarily because of Iraqi expertise in camouflaging and shielding their equipment. The huge allied armored corps north and west of the Guard is the biggest combat tank force assembled since World War II, with more than 1,300 heavy tanks and about 100,000 U.S. and British soldiers, supported by hundreds of Apache helicopters and A-10 jets. At that point, facing overwhelming air power and the cream of the allied army's tanks, Guard commanders will have the choice of giving up or seeing their divisions destroyed. Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt. More broadly, U.S. commanders reported yesterday that allied forces have destroyed or rendered ineffective 21 Iraqi divisions, more than half the total in and around Kuwait. Saddam Hussein apparently was hoping to stop this devastation yesterday with a radio address to his troops and nation in which he said that Iraqi troops are withdrawing from Kuwait but that Iraqis should be proud to have stood up to a 30-nation coalition. By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering him out of Kuwait, Saddam is giving us every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power, said one Bush administration official. U.S. officials are preparing to live with a hostile Saddam Hussein for at least a while after the liberation of Kuwait. U.S. officials say they are well aware of the danger of making Saddam Hussein a martyr figure through U.S. overkill, and believe they can avoid that outcome. For starters, the U.S. hopes that the Iraqi people themselves will conclude that Saddam Hussein botched both his war with the U.S.-led coalition and his various attempts to stop it once it was underway. While the tank battles began to the west, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out. Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra. Rear Admiral Mike McConnell, director of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs, said that allied forces found a document, which he said was written to Iraq's senior generals before the war started, ordering Iraqi troops to inflict maximum casualties on U.S. troops and also to destroy Kuwaiti oil facilities. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly. Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime. Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra. Overall, Pentagon officials described Iraqi forces as confused, leaderless and battle-weary, adding that the few Guard units that have engaged in tank duels so far haven't been any tougher to defeat than the rest of Saddam Hussein's army. Gen. Kelly said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly. Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime. 