Michael Milken, the Drexel Burnham Lambert junk bond wizard in Beverly Hills who revolutionized U.S. corporate finance and raised funds for dozens of corporate raids, was indicted Wednesday on federal racketeering, insider trading and other securities fraud counts. If convicted on the racketeering charges, the three could face an astronomical amount in financial penalties: The indictment asks that they forfeit a total of $1.85 billion, representing their salaries, other compensation and their share of Drexel profits, all earned in what the government charges was a continuing criminal enterprise operated at the New York-based investment banking firm. The indictment apparently marks the end of Milken's 20-year career at the firm that his junk bond operation transformed from a second-rank investment bank to one of the powerhouses on Wall Street. Immediately after the 98-count indictment was returned by a federal grand jury, Drexel said that Milken, 42, and his brother, 40, had requested and been granted leaves of absence. He is also named as a defendant in an indictment returned last July relating to Princeton/Newport Partners, a small investment firm that did business with Drexel. Sources at the firm said the indictment of Michael Milken probably would clear the way for Drexel to swiftly settle civil charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 110-page indictment returned Wednesday appears to closely follow the civil charges contained in an SEC lawsuit filed in September against Drexel and the Milkens. The second broad area involves transactions with Princeton/Newport Partners, in which Drexel and Milken allegedly helped Princeton/Newport carry out tax fraud through sham securities trades with Drexel. Among other charges, the indictment alleges that Drexel used Princeton/Newport to illegally manipulate the price of COMB Co. securities in 1985. Although the government could immediately ask a federal judge to freeze the three defendants' personal assets, Romano, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said he probably will not do that. When asked about the huge amounts, among the largest that individuals have been asked to forfeit in a RICO case, Romano said the numbers represented the extraordinary levels of compensation and stock ownership in the (illegal) Drexel enterprise paid to Michael Milken and the others. The indictment notes that Milken received $1.1 billion in direct compensation from Drexel from 1984 through 1987, as well as millions in other forms of compensation, and that he is Drexel's largest individual stockholder, owning about 6% of the firm. According to the indictment, Milken's pay was $123.8 million in 1984 and $135 million in 1985, then more than doubled in 1986 to $294.8 million. The indictment says that, during those years, Milken's personal compensation amounted to between 28% and 44% of the junk bond department's gross revenues. Drexel's tentative settlement of the six criminal charges pending against the firm calls for it to withhold nearly all of Michael Milken's compensation from 1988, as well as about $13 million owed to Lowell Milken. Both Milkens strongly denied the charges against them. He added that I have been thrown into this indictment because of a fact in which I take great pride -- I am Michael Milken's brother. The second RICO indictment of Mr. Newberg, containing essentially the same charges as those in the first indictment, is a total perversion of the RICO statute, the lawyers said. The government requested that U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood be assigned to the case, because she is already presiding over the case in which Drexel is expected to plead guilty to six charges. The indictment conspicuously leaves out a number of names of Drexel employees who reportedly have been under investigation. Defense lawyers said they believe that the government may file additional indictments, or file a new indictment, superseding the one handed up Wednesday, that would include more individuals as defendants. 