Virginia's version, later copied by New York and North Carolina, brought together three elements in one article -- affirmation of a right to bear arms, reliance on state militia, and opposition to a standing army: That the people have a right to keep and bear arms; that a well-regulated militia, composed of the body of the people trained to arms, is the proper, natural, and safe defense of a free state; that standing armies, in times of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and therefore ought to be avoided.... Soon after the First Congress met, James Madison, elected as a congressman from Virginia on the basis of such a pledge, proposed a number of amendments resembling yet different from articles proposed by states. In the version of the arms amendment he presented, Madison dropped mention of a standing army and added a conscientious objector clause. The right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed, a well armed and well regulated militia being the best security of a free country, but no person religiously scrupulous of bearing arms shall be compelled to render military service in person. In this version, bearing arms must mean to render military service, or why else would there have to be an exemption for religious reasons? The right of the people to serve in the militia. This militia amendment was referred to a congressional committee, and came out of committee in this form: A well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, being the best security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed; but no person religiously scrupulous shall be compelled to bear arms. Two significant changes had been made: first, the phrase to render military service in person was replaced by the phrase to bear arms, again indicating that they are two ways to say the same thing; second, an explanation was added, that the militia is composed of the body of the people. The House then debated this new version in committee of the whole and, surprisingly, considering the subsequent history of the provision, never once did any member mention the private uses of arms, for self-protection, or hunting, or any other personal purpose. The Senate in turn gave it its final form, briefer, unfortunately more elliptical, and with the exemption for conscientious objectors deleted: A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed. Certain explanations were lost or buried in this legislative process: that the right to bear arms meant the right to serve in the militia; that just about everybody was included in the militia; and that the amendment as a whole sought to minimize if not eliminate reliance on a standing army by emphasizing the role of the state militia, which would require that everyone be ready to be called to serve. But what about the private right to keep and bear arms, to own a gun for self-defense and hunting? Didn't just about everyone own a gun in 1791? The Constitution nevertheless says nothing about the undeniable right to own a dog. The right to bear arms protected in the Second Amendment has to do directly with a well-regulated militia. Well, for example, it means that Congress has the constitutional power to enact a Militia Act of 1992, to require every person who owns a gun or aspires to own one to enroll in the militia. 