A white Long Beach police officer who allegedly pushed a black man through a plate-glass window during an arrest that was secretly videotaped by a television crew acknowledged Friday that he made errors in his official report. Dickey, who was testifying under subpoena, admitted under questioning that the black man, Don Jackson, never used profanity during the arrest as Dickey had indicated in his report. Jackson, a Hawthorne police sergeant on disability leave and a self-styled crusader against police brutality, had gone to Long Beach that night with an NBC television crew following in a separate vehicle in what he termed a sting operation to validate reports of racism and brutality by Long Beach police officers. Dickey has been temporarily reassigned to a desk job, and Jackson was charged with interfering with a police officer. At the hearing, Boatwright repeatedly played the videotape while committee members and about 50 observers watched on television monitors and Dickey and Jackson commented on each scene. Boatwright questioned whether the car in which Jackson was riding was actually weaving -- the stated cause for the traffic stop -- and whether Jackson acted aggressively toward the officers, as Dickey said in his report. Earlier, under questioning by Boatwright and as the videotape was played, Dickey testified that the alleged infraction for which the Jackson car was stopped -- crossing the center divider -- occurred before it could be seen on a tape shot from the NBC chase vehicle, but he maintained that the tape does show Jackson's car weaving slowly within the traffic lane. Dickey acknowledged that the police car he was driving was weaving all over, too as it tailed Jackson's car. Dickey's eight-page police report, which was provided to reporters, states that Jackson was arrested for saying offensive words, an allegation that was later dropped. But Dickey conceded at the hearing that it was he, not Jackson, who uttered obscenities. No Taunts Heard The report states that Jackson challenged the officer to fight, although Jackson never is heard taunting the officer on the tape. At one point in the proceeding, Boatwright had Dickey and Jackson weighed in an attempt to show that Jackson is shorter and weighs less than the officer. At another point, Boatwright assumed the role of Dickey and had Dickey play Jackson in trying to demonstrate the type of hold Dickey used on Jackson during the arrest. Boatwright contended that in using that type of hold the officer would have had to push Jackson into the window deliberately. Jackson, according to Dickey, struck the window with his elbows and not with his face as Jackson contends. 