in an interview with the media on the last day of his stay in australia, he went so far as to say that chinese officials do not understand the international status and importance of hong kong so their criticism of him does not conform to reality, adding that hong kong is an international asset as well as china's asset. in reponse, patten showed his ignorance and arrogance, once again proving that the british government is bent on making the hong kong issue an international one before evacuating hong kong and changing hong kong into an independent or semi-independent political entity, to extend the influence of its colonial rule. <h5> sovereignty over hong kong cannot be evaded </h5> ostensibly, some people feel governor patten's remarks, quoted at the beginning of this article, were made in praise of hong kong and in defense of hong kong's international status and its importance. according to patten, since hong kong is an international asset, it belongs to the international community, namely, it is shared by every country in the world or at least it is an independent or semi-independent political entity, over which china cannot exercise sovereignty. these sonorous and forceful remarks most vividly highlight and express the common desire of the chinese people, including hong kong compatriots. <h5> attempt to turn hong kong into international wrestling ring </h5> before the chinese people, who refuse to be bullied again, patten's attempt to evade and deny the fact that hong kong belongs to china by saying hong kong is an international asset is of no avail. by falsely alleging that the chinese side does not understand hong kong's international status, he obviously was trying to shift public attention, cheat the media, and lure the international community into meddling in hong kong affairs, thus finally attaining the goal of internationalizing the hong kong issue. <h3> the british side has attempted to prolong colonial rule for a long time </h3> internationalizing the hong kong issue is one of the british government's important plans to continue its colonial rule over hong kong after 1997 and is also one of its concentrated examples of going back on its word after signing the sino-british joint declaration. nevertheless, it is internationally accepted that while the hong kong issue is a matter for both china and britain before 1997, it is purely a chinese internal affair after 1997. so any attempts by patten and britain to make the hong kong issue an international one are doomed to failure. 