consider: -- mr. milken's guilty plea to six felony counts tuesday makes it impossible for him to claim in civil cases that he was guilty of no market fraud. in each case, the former junk bond impresario will be viewed as a convicted felon. -- so much evidence against him has already been gathered by federal prosecutors and the securities and exchange commission, much of which will eventually become available to shareholder lawyers, that plaintiffs' attorneys will have to do relatively little sleuthing of their own. -- while mr. milken didn't plead guilty to any racketeering counts, recent court cases have made it increasingly easy to show a so-called pattern of racketeering in civil cases. shareholders have sued mr. milken under the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law, and rico damages are automatically tripled. -- the sec's funds to compensate victims of market wrongdoing by mr. milken, drexel burnham lambert inc. and convicted abritrager ivan f. boesky, while stocked with more than $600 million, cannot be used to pay tripled damages or punitive damages. under the alleged arrangement, mr. milken shared secret information with market operatives and backed the takeover attempts of such raiders as carl icahn, ronald perelman, t. boone pickens and others. also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against mr. boesky, drexel, mr. milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations. many of these cases are pending in federal court in new york, where pretrial fact-finding has been slowed because of the unavailability of mr. boesky, mr. milken and others to testify at depositions. finally, a sprinkling of cases across the country target mr. milken among many other defendants in cases alleging that savings and loans associations and other companies suffered losses because they purchased large portfolios of drexel's junk bonds as part of back-scratching arrangements with mr. milken. 