between the invasion of kuwait last august and the end of the gulf war, many brave souls inside and outside the u.s. government worried about clever stratagems that saddam hussein might employ to defeat the u.s. george bush, by contrast, developed a coherent strategy to liberate kuwait backed up his diplomacy with a war plan that provided for sufficient force to achieve a clear military objective obtained at every step the endorsement not only of america's allies but -- miraculously -- also of the u.n. security council secured public support at home and the consent of a divided, reluctant congress wisely left military campaigns and tactics to his commanders and fended off a last minute attempt by mikhail gorbachev to turn iraq into a soviet protectorate. even though the bush administration's response to the new challenge has been mysteriously slow and inept, saddam hussein's most recent depredations have killed his last chance to plead for magnanimity in victory, or to posture himself as the lesser evil, who would, at least, give us the blessings of stability in iraq. when saddam hussein is told to hand to the u.n. a list of all his prohibited weapons as a first step in complying with the ceasefire, he might well respond by arguing: (1) iraq never had any of these weapons, (2) if it had, american bombing raids have destroyed every one of them, and (3) if there were remaining weapons, all records have been burned by kurdish terrorists. we should expect unexplained disappearances of u.n. arms control inspectors, crashes (blamed on kurds) of u.n. helicopters looking for hidden chemical weapons, and the killing of thousands of iraqi soldiers, scientists and technicians who might reveal the location of prohibited weaponry. saddam hussein may not realize it, but as he begins to obstruct, violate and sabotage the u.n. implementation of the ceasefire agreement, he must take on not just some bureaucrats at u.n. headquarters and the u.n. flag. since mr. bush has just succeeded in turning the u.n. into a useful instrument for enhancing world order, he can't let saddam hussein steal his success. 