Exxon crews Tuesday finished pumping the remaining crude oil out of the tanker Exxon Valdez in preparation for refloating and removing the source of the nation's worst-ever oil spill. Exxon today refloated its still-leaking oil tanker, whose fugitive captain surrendered a few hours earlier to face charges of operating the vessel while drunk. The tanker Exxon Valdez was freed Wednesday from the reef that ripped its hull and spilled more than 10 million gallons of crude oil, and Alaska's governor asked the Coast Guard to take over the cleanup from Exxon. Hazelwood is charged with operating a ship while under the influence of alcohol, reckless endangerment and negligent discharge of oil. Hazelwood was fired by Exxon a week ago after the National Transportation Safety Board said tests taken about nine hours after the disaster showed he was drunk. Thousands of oil-spattered workers hampered by worsening weather have only a few more days to clean crude oil off Alaska's petroleum-fouled shoreline before Exxon Corp. stops work for the season. Exxon says it will pull out the last of its workers by this coming Friday after treating more than 1,000 miles of shoreline tainted by the nation's worst oil spill. Already, the first fall storm has raked Prince William Sound, where the tanker Exxon Valdez spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil on March 24. Former tanker skipper Joseph Hazelwood, accused of being drunk, reckless and most responsible for the nation's worst oil spill, was acquitted of all but a minor pollution charge by an Alaskan jury Thursday. The company still faces federal criminal charges, and Hazelwood is named in about 150 civil lawsuits seeking financial damages for the oil spill that polluted hundreds of miles of Alaskan shoreline. It was not clear how Hazelwood's exoneration on serious criminal charges might affect those other cases, but state prosecutors had argued at the close of Hazelwood's trial that Exxon would benefit from an acquittal. Jim Morakis, a spokesman for Exxon in New York, said the company, which has fired Hazelwood, was pleased that the ordeal of the trial is over for captain Hazelwood and his family. Exxon salvage crews successfully refloated the stricken tanker Exxon Valdez on Wednesday as the former captain of the vessel surrendered to authorities in New York to face criminal charges in the massive oil spill. Even so, Exxon officials warned in advance that refloating the ship could uncover additional oil that had been pinned in pockets between the ship's hull and rocky Bligh Reef. 