Link: [Comments: zero anaphor of GEMS] There are so many bacteria everywhere that picking out a GEM is a_bit like looking for a candle amongst Blackpool '_ s illumination. Soil , for_example , can easily have millions of bacteria ? of very many different species ? in just a gram. They '_ ve used one that codes for an enzyme called catechol 2,3-dioxygenase ( C230 for short ). But the snag is that first you have to be able to recover the GEMs to culture them to do the catechol yellowing test. To develop a recovery method , Morgan , Saunders and Pickup used a Gem called Pseudomonas putida mt-2 , a modified common soil bacterium which may have wide applications for destroying toxic substances. Their method has been designed for recovering a GEM from water ? not easy because any bacteria in it are much less abundant than , say in soil. This GEM ? like most bacteria ? is n't the smooth cell shape that it looks. So mt-2 '_ s purified pili and flagellae were injected into animals so that they rapidly produced antibodies specific to them. Suspended in water , only the GEM for which the antibodies were specific will attach to the beads. The beads plus GEM are recovered with a magnet. Once you have the GEMs on the polystyrene spheres they can be washed off and cultured for testing with catechol or other techniques. This research , to enable identification of a released GEM ? and its whereabouts ? is essential because_of the risks involved in letting GEMs out_of the laboratory. There are concerns that , once released , GEMs might exhibit some previously unknown pathogenicity , might take over from some naturally occurring bacteria or pass on some perhaps unwanted trait to indigenous bacteria. There are also fears that a genetic mutation ? over which there could be no control ? could suddenly produce a GEM with some nasty trick up its sleeve. Engineering a time delayed & bquo ; lethal gene & equo ; into a GEM to give it a finite life ? making it sensitive to low air temperatures so that frost kills it ? is one way. Doubling up on & bquo ; lethal genes & equo ; ? by making a GEM both frost susceptible and ultraviolet light sensitive ? is a belt and braces approach. 