RUSSIA : Russian haste on Belarus union pact questioned. Russian haste on Belarus union pact questioned. Adam Tanner MOSCOW 1996-04-01 A leading Russian newspaper on Tuesday questioned the Kremlin's haste in promoting without public debate a treaty creating a union with neighbouring Belarus , reflecting liberal concerns about the pact. _ They are deciding the fate of Russia behind the backs of the people , _ liberal daily Izvestia said in the lead headline of its Tuesday editions. _ Was it agreement or conspiracy prepared in the corridors of power ? _ Under the treaty , expected to be signed on Wednesday , the two ex-Soviet states would remain independent but coordinate their foreign , economic and military policies closely. President Boris Yeltsin gave the green light to the treaty on Monday , and was expected to sign it on April 3 with his Belarus counterpart Alexander Lukashenko , Russian media reported. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for Lukashenko. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for Lukashenko. Russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a _ community _ with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by the two leaders on April 2 last year. _ There will be a union of two states rather then a single state , _ Valery Serov , Russia's deputy prime minister who co-authored the treaty , told a news conference. The potential transformation of Russia was rushed so quickly that even Yeltsin's allies complained about the lack of debate. _ The government's mistake is that it has rather quickly and secretly worked out the agreement and presented it for ratification , _ Sergei Belyayev , a leader of the pro-government Russia's Choice fraction of parliament , told NTV commercial television. _ That_ 's why there emerged more questions than answers. _ Even Serov's remarks suggested that Russians were confused about the most basic issues related to the treaty. _ Some people are asking : '_ In what country will we wake up on April 3 ? _' , _ Serov said. _ The answer is : In the very same country you went to bed. _ Russia's embrace of Belarus comes at a time of increasing international isolation for Minsk. Above_all , liberals fear Lukashenko could gain jurisdiction over some decisions affecting Russia under a nine-member Supreme Council which will oversee the Russia-Belarus union. 