With small blue masks over their mouths, ear muffs on their ears, and goggles covered up with sticky tape. That world which had looked in tears at the photos and the pictures of September 11, the Towers collapsing, and the infamy against civilization, and which is now discovering these other photos, the first ones to come out of Camp X-Ray, the open-air prison which the United States has set up at Guantanamo base, their historic outpost on the island of Cuba. One hundred and forty-four is the number, so far, of prisoners captured in the 100 days of the Afghanistan war, and taken here from Kandahar air base on a 27-hour flight, blindfolded, gagged, tied up, and dosed up with sedatives on the C17 cargo planes belonging to the Stars and Stripes air force. The government has 30 million dollars ready to build in Guantanamo ('Gitmo' to generations and generations of Marines) nine top-security prisons just for them: But up until then it will keep them in the cages. But the photos of 'Gitmo' are now in danger of removing the United States from the niche of affection and solidarity which September 11 had guaranteed it in the hearts of many people. The BBC has been posing questions about those photos which are stirring up protests, and many people believe them to be a scandal : photos taken in part at the landing of the C17s after the trip from Afghanistan, which already showed the prisoners reduced to objects, with gags, masked goggles, and ear muffs. But the head of the medical staff of Amnesty International, Jim West, has claimed that there is no other explanation for these measures than the attempt to degrade the human condition. I am shocked -- he said -- because they still wear the ear muffs and the goggles inside the camp. Other human rights groups have talked in terms of sensory segregation,' In that condition, you suffer from hallucinations, stated Helen Bamber, from the Medical Foundation for Protecting Victims of Torture, on television. As for the rest, they are raising the objection of reason of State, and an emergency which is definitely not over: Since September 11, 1,500 suspected terrorists have been captured in 50 countries, but the intelligence services claim that at least 10,000 affiliates of al-Qa'ida are still scattered across the world, their network all around us. The status of prisoners of war (which, by law, ought not to be decided on by Rumsfeld, but by a tribunal) would protect them from interrogation, and would guarantee that they get a trial, by court martial, that was much fairer than that of the secret special tribunals which Bush is trying to set up. Outside the camp, there lies the absurd small piece of the United States which is Guanatanamo on Cuban soil: a McDonald's outlet, the school with its yellow bus for the children of families living on the base, the store windows with the latest roller-blades at 50 dollars, and the cinema, currently showing 'Domestic Disturbance.' The 'Gitmo' camp is many things. It is a clash of civilizations, and it is perhaps about to become the first global prison in the new world: Yesterday Stockholm announced that in a cage of Guantanamo there is a Swedish citizen, while the next ones due to arrive are six Algerians, who have nothing to do with the war in Afghanistan, and who were arrested in Bosnia on a tip-off from the US secret services, because they are suspected of preparing an attack against the US embassy in Sarajevo (one of them is said to have phoned a member of al-Qa'ida). Morton Haplerin, from the Council for Foreign Relations, said: It is clear that the United States sees Guantanamo as a place where it can gather persons caught in all parts of the world. If a tip-off truly is enough to end up in a cage on the other side of the Ocean, the new history of 'Gitmo' has only just begun. 