9 unconventional ways to improve your home Conventional wisdom, as it relates to houses, is often too much convention and not enough wisdom. Every year, somebody publishes a list of which conventional home improvements will give you the best (or the worst) return on your remodeling investment. You invest in your home to improve livability first, not value. Otherwise you’ll end up like the potential client that came into my office a few years ago with a three-page single-spaced typewritten (as in made with a “typewriter”) list of things he wanted in his house. His list included this line: “A large dining room, near the kitchen. 3. Group windows together facing best views instead of scattering them around the house Got a great view somewhere? Take excess windows from bedrooms and baths and use them to connect the inside of the house with the outside. We once remodeled a house on the coast of Lake Erie that had one window – one – facing the lake. 4. Keep ceiling heights reasonable for the room size “Volume” ceilings do not automatically make better rooms. Rooms that are harder to decorate and more expensive to heat and cool. Use wall trim and multiple paint colors to break up the volume of the room and create the illusion of height. 5. Spend more time planning, and less money building I toured a client’s existing home before we began designing the new one. “Of course,” she said as we peeked in on the kids’ rooms, “these bedrooms are way too small.” Really? But each bedroom had at least one door or one window on each wall. Pretty, but the design left little room for furniture. 6. Consider the simple elegance of the box form house Subtlety and restraint used to be virtues in home design. The simple box house is a classic American form that’s survived 150 years of stylistic changes. Make the toilet and a sink in the master bath accessible to the rest of the house, instead of building a separate half bath – it won’t be used much by you during the day, and rarely by guests at night. Compartmentalized bath – two baths in the space of one and a half Each kid doesn’t need his/her own bath, but they do need privacy and room to share. A compartmentalized bath puts two sinks in one room and the toilet and tub/shower in another – so three kids can use the bath at once and keep a little more harmony in the family home. But every one saves you money over a more “conventional” design strategy, and every one increases the livability of your home. 