The government wants to play an active role internationally but we should also work on reducing emissions here at home. The government wants to point to a significant reduction of climate gate emissions before 2005 after Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol in the course of the year, Environmental Protection Minister Borge Brende has written. Regardless of what Norway and other countries manage to do in this respect, we must prepare ourselves for climate changes. According to the United Nations' climate panel, in the next 10 to 20 years changes in the climate will be almost unaffected by what we do in the way of initiatives in the next few years to reduce emissions of climate gases. North Norway will also get more precipitation in the fall but warmer temperatures in the winter. Even if we can say with great certainty that climate changes will come, we need more knowledge about the effects. How should we prepare ourselves for more and bigger floods? All the world's countries and peoples are affected by climate changes but it is the poor countries that are being hit the hardest. Even if developing countries have contributed to these climate problems to just a slight degree, they will nevertheless bear the greatest burden. The elements in a more offensive climate policy are: Initiatives between now and 2008: The government wants to show demonstrable progress in the reduction of climate emissions by 2005. The government wants to set the stage for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Protocol next year. There is consensus that a broad quota system with international quota exchange should be used to achieve our emission responsibilities during the first obligatory period, 2008-2012. For later periods, sharper reductions are necessary and there is also the need to get more countries to take on climate obligations. There exists the potential for significant reductions in climate gas emissions in Norway that will not produced with today's resources. A quota is a right to emit a certain quantity of climate gases during a certain period and this right can be sold on a market. Businesses that are obligated by a quota can then choose whether they want to buy those quotas they need or introduce measures to reduce emissions. In the government's work to put the quota system into shape in Norway, we are now discussing a number of problems. The possibility of cooperating with other countries' early quota systems. I am pleased that there now seems to be broad political consensus that in Norway as well we should get under way with an early quota system. Regardless of the shape of the measures in Norway, Norwegian businesses as well ought to contribute to reducing emissions in poor countries. The green development mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol opens the way for businesses from industrialized countries to pay for the introduction of more environmentally-friendly technology in polluting industries in developing countries. 