However, no broad social debate has yet been conducted on the crucial question: How much should each sector or target group contribute to achieving the Belgian Kyoto standard? In these covenants, the companies pledge to rank among the world leaders in energy efficiency by 2012. Belgian industry is advocating benchmark covenants because it is afraid that an absolute limit would weaken considerably its competitive position with respect to similar companies in regions where the Kyoto protocol is not ratified. As a result, the costs of additional restrictions on emissions in industry must be compared with those of other sectors, such as the transport sector, households, the service sector, and so forth. Second, benchmark covenants do not guarantee that the external climate costs of energy use (the increased greenhouse effect caused by the burning of fossil fuels) are correctly taken into account in the final products of the sectors concerned. Third, questions can be asked about the emission restrictions that would be achieved by the covenants. Fourth is the contrast between the benchmark covenants' relative emissions standards and the Belgian Government's absolute restrictions on emissions within the framework of the Kyoto protocol. Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants. Thus the benchmark covenants could have very significant consequences for other sectors and target groups in our society, whereas the latter are not involved in the deliberations on those covenants. This European proposal assumes absolute restrictions on emissions (companies obtain rights to emit a certain number of tons of carbon dioxide) and is hence irreconcilable at first sight with the Flemish benchmark covenants. However, the benchmark covenants could be opportune here for settling the initial allocation of emission rights. Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling. The great advantage of negotiable emission rights in that the system can lead to a cost-efficient division of effort among all sectors and target groups. By using the benchmark covenants to allocate emission rights initially, the good points of covenants are retained and their drawbacks are eliminated. 