Becoming a captive after being defeated in a war apparently is bad, but being not treated as a prisoner of war [POW] is even worse. The first-day menu for the prisoners shows that they had a package of vacuum-packed Italian vegetable noodle and a package containing peanuts, granola bars, and a box of colorful, sugar-coated cereal, a favorite of American young people. While these foods are strange to the prisoners, the United States has indeed abided by the dietary rules that Muslims have to follow. Certain American people also maintain that the US way of treating the prisoners is not reproachable. Christopher, a physician working in the prisoners' camp, said: We really treat them well. A medium has this description for the Guantanamo prisoners' camp: The 2.5-square meter cement cell is way below the standards of cells built for American prisoners. Ann Crawd [name transliterated], chairwoman of the UN Human Rights Commission, pointed out: The United States shall not play with human rights and may not violate the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War that we have signed. US Strategy -- a Strategy for Testing the Next Moves The US move of disclosing the state of the detainees in Guantanamo and allowing international organizations and the media to inspect is a wise one, otherwise the international community will have all sorts of misgivings about the treatment for the detainees. But people still question why the US Government refuses to characterize the detainees in Guantanamo as prisoners of war while claiming that the treatment for them is in line with the Geneva Convention on POWs. Now that these prisoners are in its hands, it is not likely that the US Government will let them off easily. If it chooses to characterize these detainees as POWs, then it must release some of them sooner or later and it is very likely that these people will again attack the United States with terrorist means. These prisoners not only are citizens of the belligerent country, but also are citizens of nonbelligerent countries, even citizens of the United States' allies, such as Britain. Thus, the United States cannot simply consider this issue as contradiction between the enemy and itself, it must also consider international relations. Therefore, on the issue of defining these prisoners' status, the United States must test the attitudes of the international community, especially the attitudes of European countries. The Detainees' Status -- an Issue Concerning Their Life and Death After visiting the Guantanamo prisoners' camp, many international organizations and media are accusing the United States of being too harsh for the prisoners. If the United States insisted that these prisoners are to be tried at a military tribunal, it is almost certain that they will be sentenced to death. US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld said that the Afghanistan's Taliban and al-Qaeda members are unlawful combatants, not POWs, and so the United States would not treat them as POWs and they would not enjoy any rights prescribed in the Geneva Convention on POWs. This is the first time in war history that terrorists have become war prisoners. One thing the international community feels incomprehensible is that why are these Taliban and al-Qaeda members not considered as POWs since, before the war they were organized combatants, the battles they fought were also organized resistance, and they were obviously captured in battles during the war? What worries the West and some other countries most is that, if the United States refuses to treat these detainees as POWs, then their soldiers may be treated the same way as the Guantanamo prisoners should they be captured by the Taliban remnants and other radical organizations when they take part in the United Nations' peace-keeping missions. Without a doubt, the United States' willfulness is what has greatly annoyed some countries and international organizations. After winning the war, the US Government has come up with many other excuses to deny the captives' POW status. If the United States chooses to disregard the Geneva Convention the way it follows this time, the legality and sanctity of international law will be substantially reduced. The convention has specified the treatment for POWs and their privileges. Now let us compare the convention's provisions and the media's descriptions of the detainees in terms of their dignity, lodging, clothing, activities and trial. The current treatment for the detainees: The prisoners were brought to the prisons in a brutal manner. This little cell will house two or more prisoners with the arrival of more captives in the future. The prisoners' hands and feet are shackled. When the prisoners are let out for exercise, take a bath, or go to the toilet, their hands must still be tied up, and two US soldiers will accompany them. One military tribunal will try these prisoners. There will not be a jury, and these captives may not appeal. Reprisal against the prisoners of war shall be prohibited. 