There are many Marthas here, people who marched to ZANU-PF anthems and cheered President Robert Mugabe at rallies, while secretly planning to vote for Mr. Tsvangirai. After months of fear and intimidation, Zimbabweans streamed to the polls this weekend in record numbers to cast their votes in the country's first contested election since independence 22 years ago. Many arrived at overburdened polling stations in the early hours of the morning and waited in the hot sun for the entire day without food. Even as voters went to the polls over the weekend, the intimidation and attempts at rigging continued. The government slashed the number of polling stations in urban areas where the MDC is favored, while boosting the number in rural ruling-party strongholds. In Kuwadzana, there were seven polling stations for about 55,000 people. Rural Bindura had 41 polling stations for a smaller number of people. Now the country's 5.6 million voters are waiting anxiously for the results of the poll to be announced, although the voting, which was supposed to end Sunday, may stretch on for days. An increasing number of local election monitors and international observers say the vote rigging has been so thorough that hopes for a free election are dead. In urban areas, lines snaked for more than a mile and angry voters sometimes tried to push their way into polling booths. The intention, of course, is that you frustrate as many voters as you can. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against him, said Tsvangirai, visiting one polling station where thousands waited angrily to cast their votes, waving their hands in the open-handed signal of the MDC. In rural areas, many polling stations stood empty by midday. The MDC says that 52 percent of its rural polling agents were chased away, abducted, or refused accreditation by government officials, leaving the voting process open to widespread abuse. He refused, but sent her to talk to the election officers - both of whom represented the ruling ZANU-PF party. Despite everything, there is still hope in Zimbabwe that this election may bring change. 