72 Hours At Camp X-Ray GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba - It begins as a shiny speck in the southeast skies of the lone landing strip here at Gitmo, the oldest U.S. base overseas. On a hot and windy afternoon, the deep blue waters of the Caribbean serve as the postcard backdrop. They wear black baseball leg guards and bulletproof vests and carry M-16 rifles. Down the back ramp of the mammoth aircraft, the guards slowly unload the latest detainees from the war in Afghanistan, 34 altogether. Wearing bright orange wool knit caps, blacked-out goggles, earmuffs, white surgical masks, bright orange jumpsuits, denim jackets, beige mittens (taped around the wrists), handcuffs and ankle shackles, the detainees don't look natural. After a 25-hour flight of mostly sitting, the prisoners hobble along as the Marines, who look twice as big, walk them out and frisk them. The prisoners are here because the military considers them hard-core terrorists - willing to escape, to kill themselves and others. They board buses that will take them to a ferry that will take them across Guantanamo Bay to a detention facility known as Camp X-Ray. A sign near the ferry slip conveys some of the strange vibe of Guantanamo, a 45-square mile naval base in which the detention camp comprises some 3 acres. Last Wednesday, the 10th flight from Kandahar to the southeastern tip of Cuba arrived, bringing the total number of detainees at Camp X-Ray to 288. A day later, another 12 came, effectively filling the camp to capacity. Base officials allowed reporters to record audio and report the landings live via cell phone for the first time since the flights began arriving Jan. The last time the Pentagon released pictures of the detainees - on their knees, wearing the goggles, and surrounded by guards - the images created an international uproar. And he did what he routinely does when questioned about the way the United States is prosecuting the war on terrorism: He reminded critics of Sept. 11. When the detainees arrive at Camp X-Ray, they are told they're in Cuba and then undergo a 45-minute intake process, which, like the airstrip landing, is monitored by the Red Cross. The detainees also get fingerprinted and photographed. Instead, base officials try to glean the prisoners' real names from the letters, as many tend to give multiple aliases during interrogations. Base officials say there are Christian prisoners as well as Muslims. After prayer, the detainees' day goes like this: breakfast, a shower (every other day), sick call, noon prayer, lunch, recreation (15 minutes a couple of times a week), mail call, sunset prayer, dinner, evening prayer and bedtime around 9 p.m. For dinner they get white rice, red beans, a banana and water. Sean Campion, one of the camp guards, characterizes life at Camp X-Ray as utter boredom. The guards mostly communicate with the prisoners via simple English commands and hand signals. Abuhena Mohammad Saiful-Islam, 39, speaks more with the detainees than almost anybody at the camp. As the Muslim chaplain, he ministers at the facility up to five hours every day. Somebody asks Saiful-Islam if the relationship between the detainees and God has changed since their capture. Concertina wire and nine guard towers surround Camp X-Ray. Unlike other parts of the base, the camp does not have a pretty setting. Bright orange figures sit in their cells, some of them praying. Three guards accompany him - one on either side and one behind. One of the guards puts a hand behind the head of the detainee, forcing him to look down. This is done to provide positive control, says U.S. Army Col. Terry Carrico, in effect the prison warden. Base officials suspect that the people already in custody pass the word along to the new arrivals that they will be treated okay. Some guards don't want to talk about their views of the prisoners. The security here I would consider tighter than death row in a prison in the United States. The hospital is several miles from Camp X-Ray, off Recreation Road. Along the way, if allowed, the detainees would get to see a bit of Americana, a portrait built over the past century. U.S. forces seized Guantanamo Bay during the Spanish-American War. The growth of the base has left Camp X-Ray surprisingly close to a suburban-style military community of beige, green and yellow houses in subdivisions with names like Caribbean Circle and West Iguana. Another child, no more than 3 or 4, plays on a gym set, with a young woman keeping a watchful eye. Jerome says the hospital feels no different than a hospital in the states, save for the high security and the various languages the detainees speak, including French, Russian, Urdu and Arabic. While she sees the detainees as patients, she allows that they're not regular patients. But I still try to treat them as a patient. Fleet Hospital 20 has nine patients today. Just the other day, however, a surgeon took out the eye of a patient who had suffered a sports injury when he was younger. Indeed, the patient invited the surgeon for a cup of tea after the operation. The staff gives reporters a quick tour of the hospital, allowing photographs of some sections but not of the patients. As an al-Jazeera television crew walks through, the staff rolls out a patient who has just had his right index finger amputated as a result of a gunshot wound. The doctors explain this is a common reaction as patients awake from anesthesia. Finally, an interpreter comes in to talk to the patient. While calm has returned to Fleet Hospital 20, officials elsewhere on the base are bracing for what they say may be inevitable: the death of one of the detainees. Not at the hands of the guards. Gen. Michael R. Lehnert, the commander of the prison project, says, We continue to work to improve living conditions for both the detainees and our security forces. Within a couple months, he says, the operation will move to another part of Guantanamo called Radio Range, where utilities are more readily available and cells will have cots, air conditioning and toilets. For now, with the camp at capacity, flights here have stopped. 