India's military and paramilitary forces were put on red alert as gangs took to the streets of New Delhi and other cities, looking for scapegoats.; India's chief election commissioner, T.N. Seshan early this morning postponed the remaining two phases of the national parliamentary elections until next month. At least 14 other people, including a senior police officer, died in the blast.; Officials in New Delhi said the blast was caused by either a time bomb or remote-control device. He had been receiving bouquets and garlands all evening.; Gandhi recently had been shrugging off security guards.; There was no immediate indication who was responsible for the bomb, but speculation centered on Tamil separatists seeking an independent state in nearby Sri Lanka.; President Bush and other world leaders expressed horror and sadness at the slaying. When you look at his contribution to international order and you think of his decency, it's a tragedy, Bush said in Washington.; End of dynasty; Gandhi's death marks the likely end of the political dynasty that has dominated Indian politics since independence in 1947. People broke into the house of Gandhi's neighbor, former Labor Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, and set furniture ablaze, police said.; Police fired shots in the air to drive away the angry, shouting crowd. There were no injuries.; Paswan, a member of the Janata Dal party, which defeated Gandhi's Congress Party in the 1989 general elections, was not home at the time.; Some shocked Indian political leaders told reporters they feared Rajiv Gandhi's assassination augured the death of India's four-decades-old democracy. But others, including leaders of the main rival to the Congress Party in this election, the Hindu revivalist Bharatiya Janata Party, denounced the killing and urged the country to remain calm in its aftermath.; It's a tremendous loss to democracy, senior Congress leader Vasant Sathe told reporters. Has about 195 Parliament seats.; Janata Dal: Led by former prime minister, V.P. Singh. Supported by militant Hindu groups.; Socialist Janata Dal: The party was formed in November with Congress Party backing by current prime minister Chandra Shekhar, who heads interim government. Has about 50 seats in Parliament.;...; India's political bloodlines; Rajiv Gandhi; 1944-1991; Became prime minister in 1984 after assassination of Indira Gandhi. Assassinated during campaign stop Tuesday.;...; Indira Gandhi; 1917-1984; Prime minister from 1966-'77 and from 1980 until assassinated by Sikh militants. 