Although the establishment of communications between Ljubljana and Belgrade would be very important for the situation in the former Yugoslavia in general, the chances that this could happen soon are minimal. The establishing of relations between the two states, the exchange of diplomatic representatives, and the abolition of the visa requirement for Yugoslav citizens are some of the topics to be considered. This information has not been denied and, apart from that, it is the logical conclusion to a series of statements issued by Slovene politicians, which pointed to a change in relations toward Belgrade. The FRY Ministry of Foreign Affairs is denying that any official Slovene delegation came to Belgrade. After reporters remarked that this relatively negative attitude might negate the unofficial signal from Ljubljana, a Yugoslav diplomat said: We do not think that there is only one opinion in Slovenia about Yugoslavia. I am now speaking about the official Slovene attitude, not about the attitudes of all the politicians, and especially not about the attitudes of the Slovene people. Kucan said that Slovenia never had any conflict with Serbia, and Peterle that Slovenia would be happy if the conditions for the removal of the sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro were fulfilled. The European Union initiative makes us hope that the situation in the Balkans can be solved. Belgrade diplomats agree with this assessment and claim that the first announcement of possible contacts between Yugoslavia and Slovenia were made by arrangement with Germany and Austria. In the focus of Serbian attention now are relations with Croatia, and as far as Slovenia is concerned, the official proposal for the normalization of relations has to be specified first. It is further necessary that the anti-Serbian campaign that Slovenia has been spreading all over the world is ended and that it acknowledges that those who remained in Yugoslavia have the right to self- determination. There are many situations that prove that Slovenia has a hostile attitude toward Yugoslavia. On the contrary, while we lived together, we had excellent relations. 