Heightening the tension were allegations from a second accuser, a former Thomas aide named Angela Wright, that he engaged in what she termed annoying and obnoxious behavior, including pressuring her for dates and making inappropriate comments. Given the focused, explosive nature of the hearing, this is destined to be one of the most dramatic days in Washington in recent memory. In the narrowest sense, Judge Thomas and Ms. Hill are staking their own reputations, personal credibility and careers on this session. Right now the emotions are running higher than I can remember, with the best-laid plans being upset everywhere, says Thomas Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution. He'll probably take the last course, arguing that he made neither social nor sexual advances to Ms. Hill, and certainly did not press upon her either his sexual interests or accounts of pornographic materials. Anita Hill The University of Oklahoma law professor began this with confidential allegations that Judge Thomas had subjected her to sexual harassment when she served as his personal assistant at the Education Department. She has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired. And Ms. Hill will also be asked why she didn't broach her sexual-harassment charges in confirmation hearings for earlier posts that Judge Thomas won. But if she appears strident, she may play into the hands of those who claim she's simply trying to derail the nomination. President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment? Although the president has selected a record number of women for appointive federal posts, none of his most important political or policy advisers are women. Some argue that Mr. Bush would do better to lose the battle -- the nomination of Thomas -- than win the battle and lose a much bigger war. In his zeal to defend his nominee, he already has opened himself to criticism that he lacks sufficient sensitivity to the difficulties women face in the work force. Presidential advisers are counseling Mr. Bush to stay away from the dispute over whether Judge Thomas is guilty of the charges of sexual harassment. But Mr. Bush, who is preparing for his re-election campaign, doesn't want to lose perhaps the most emotional confirmation battle in decades. Joseph Biden The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Biden is being accused of not treating these charges seriously enough. The Delaware Democrat has to perform a tremendous high-wire act: On the one hand, he has to be sensitive enough to Ms. Hill to show that he cares about the issue of sexual harassment. The criticism comes in the wake of continuing dissatisfaction with the confirmation process from both sides of the ideological divide, with each side accusing the other of politicizing the process. (The committee, which had deadlocked 7-7 on the nomination, won't take a new vote; the Senate vote is scheduled for Tuesday.) Patrick Leahy of Vermont is a former prosecutor who seemed to have disbelieved much of what Judge Thomas said in his hearings. Mr. Leahy has complained that Judge Thomas's advisers counseled him to play it safe, and that the tactic did not fulfill Judge Thomas's responsibility to the nation. Orrin Hatch of Utah, who in the earlier hearings assumed the role of Thomas defender, will be an energetic champion. And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, he can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, like Mr. Leahy a former prosecutor, has already spoken to Judge Thomas about Ms. Hill's charges. Aggressive and combative, Mr. Specter will follow the story wherever it leads him, and Republicans know that he is not necessarily a GOP team player. Concerns about Judge Thomas's forthrightness cost him some votes he might otherwise have won -- and left him more vulnerable when the sexual-harassment issue erupted. The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination. These groups' influence first was felt during the nomination of William Rehnquist to be chief justice and intensified during the Bork confirmation fight, as they developed into a tightly knit network. But opponents of the organizations believe, in the words of Alan Slobodin, president and general counsel of the Washington Legal Foundation's legal studies division, that they will stop at nothing to defeat a nominee. On the one hand, says Ronald Walters, chairman of the political science department at Howard University, their objectives are going to be served by this hearing because regardless of the outcome it's going to damage the credibility of the nominee. 