If they would have flown over that peak they would have been home free, said Rep. Gary L. Ackerman (D-N.Y.), a colleague of Leland's who has accompanied search crews for the last two days and was aboard the helicopter that first spotted the wreckage Sunday. Wreckage Examined Ackerman said that military paratroopers lowered themselves from his helicopter on ropes to examine the wreckage. Also aboard the plane were Hugh Anderson Johnson Jr. and Patrice Yvonne Johnson, both aides to Leland (who were not related); Joyce Francine Williams, an aide to Rep. 7 Ethiopians Killed Also on board were Debebe Agonofer, an Ethiopian agricultural economist with the AID mission, and six other Ethiopians, including the plane's crew of three. By Sunday, 18 aircraft, including four American helicopters, two American C-130 airplanes and 12 Ethiopian aircraft, were involved in the search. Three more American helicopters were reported to be en route from Eglin Air Force Base in Florida when word of the discovery came. The search on Sunday was hampered again by thunderstorms, poor visibility and other conditions that characterized many of the previous days of search. Clair M. Gilk, commander of one of the two helicopters that were the first to spot the wreckage. Recovery Planned for Today Air Force personnel were assigned to remain near the site Sunday night to keep it secure. Recovery of the remains of those aboard the plane, a twin-engine Twin Otter, was to commence at first light today. Because of the site's inaccessibility, it could take at least two days to recover all of the bodies, according to Maj. Gen. James F. Record, who came here from Washington to oversee the search effort. Record arrived in Addis Ababa about 10 minutes after the first reports were received of the sighting of the crash site. Dellums to Accompany Bodies Dellums, House Majority Whip William H. Gray III (D-Pa.) and Republican Reps. Bill Emerson of Missouri and Jack Fields of Texas plan to fly to Addis Ababa to accompany the bodies back to the United States. Presently, the crew found an Ethiopian surveyor who said he could guide them to an area near where the plane had been heard. President Bush, in his Sunday statement, said: I have known, admired and worked with Mickey Leland for many years. His sense of compassion and desire to help those in need has aided millions of people from Houston to Addis Ababa. Secretary of State James A. Baker III praised the congressman as an outstanding statesman and humanitarian who died serving his country. Baker also thanked Ethiopia, a Soviet-allied country with which Washington has had strained relations for several years, for its outstanding support in the search for Leland's party. First elected to Congress in 1978, he represented a mostly black and Hispanic section of Houston after the retirement of Rep. 