He was voted most likely to succeed, head cheerleader, king of the senior prom and president of the men's honor organization. Classmates probably wouldn't have been surprised if he became a millionaire by the age of 30. Last July, when he hit the age of 42, Milken had become one of the nation's richest men, with an estimated net worth of close to $1 billion. Michael Robert Milken, the center of the nation's biggest securities fraud investigation ever, arguably is the most significant and visionary figure in American business in the 1980s, the J. Milken's actions directly or indirectly touched the lives of millions of Americans, from ordinary workers to high-powered corporate executives. He also steered Wall Street into a new and far more aggressive role in takeovers -- and not just by advising in them or financing them. He actually created and built up entire entities and corporate raiders who launched bids, partly with the aim of reviving the era of the owner-manager and making giant corporations lean and mean again. His crowning achievement -- the creation and growth of the modern junk bond market -- has yet to weather a serious recession. While Milken's junk bonds helped companies create thousands of new jobs, they also led to layoffs of workers at firms taken over by raiders financed by junk bonds. Attending Birmingham High School in Van Nuys, he served as head cheerleader on a squad that included future actress Sally Field. As a sidelight, Milken managed investments for a small group of clients, eating losses himself in exchange for half the profits. Junk bonds at the time were primarily debt issues that were once highly rated but had fallen in value and increased in risk when the issuing companies fell on hard times. Investors holding diversified portfolios of many junk bonds would earn higher profits, even if some of the bonds defaulted, he reasoned. Milken's shrewd trading of junk bonds soon began making millions of dollars for Drexel -- and for himself and his band of hard-working traders and salesmen. Out West, Milken felt he could work long hours yet still be home in time for dinner with his family. Began Underwriting Drexel executives were reportedly uncomfortable with the move because it also would give Milken more independence. Milken viewed the issuance of junk bonds by small- and medium-size companies as part of a crusade to change the face of corporate America. To spur this crusade, Milken also created and unleashed a stable of corporate raiders whose hostile takeover bids were made possible by junk financing. (The) scarce resource today is management, knowledge, vision, dealing with change, recognizing what people want and need in the future and the ability to work together. The guy was extremely supportive, said Robert Berglass, chairman and president of Dep Corp., a Rancho Dominguez-based manufacturer of cosmetics and other personal-care products. Since Drexel became its investment banker in 1986, Dep's sales and employment have more than doubled, Berglass said. Companies ranging from MCI to Metromedia, from Holiday Inns to Levitz Furniture, used Drexel-underwritten bonds to finance growth or takeovers. Entire industry segments, such as health maintenance organizations, home building, entertainment and hotels, derived much of their financing through Drexel's junk juggernaut, Horowitz notes. Clients or others seeking appointments with Milken sometimes had to meet him at unusual times -- like 5 a.m. on Sundays. Manipulation Claimed Yet Milken took great pains to be with his family, particularly his daughter, who suffers from a form of epilepsy, and his two sons, Horowitz said. Investigators believe that institutions and individuals may have been pressured into buying and selling junk bonds through an incestuous system of favors and obligations. Drexel and Milken defenders say such practices were necessary to maintain orderly markets in junk bonds where there were few buyers and sellers anyway. Regulators might have overlooked such practices were it not also for alleged illegal activities related to Milken's involvement in corporate takeovers. He also feels misunderstood and maligned by the public and the news media -- but his reluctance to talk to reporters reinforced such an image. He also has taken pains to publicize his charitable activities, which ranged from taking underprivileged children to baseball games to donating millions of dollars to charities. Yet although Milken's spirits are high, the legal pressures have taken their toll, colleagues and friends say. 