WHEN Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's newly-appointed governor, arrives in the colony in July he will find that, five years away from its reversion to Chinese sovereignty, Hong Kong is thriving. Yet, in a way which underlines the skittish, manic depressive nature of the place, business confidence is now at it highest level for three years. In one year share prices on the Hong Kong stock exchange have risen by nearly 40 per cent; so, too, have property prices. These singular rises in asset prices - aided, to be sure, by a lax monetary policy - underline the brimming optimism of Hong Kong. To judge by the stock market, property prices, and bilateral trade with and investment in China, Hong Kong appears to have come to terms with its future ruler. The economic integration of Hong Kong with China is, considering that it has occurred just over the past 10 years, nothing short of astonishing. Last year, Hong Kong exported goods with a value of HKDollars 765.8bn; of these HKDollars 534.8 were 're-exports', more than 80 per cent of which related to trade with China. Manufacturing's share of gross domestic product and employment has fallen, while the service sector - trade processing, communications, shipping - has grown. This change in Hong Kong's economy could not have happened without the historic change of course China embarked upon in 1979. Yet, in spite of the extraordinary economic integration that has taken place over the past decade, China, at a political level, divides Hong Kong society and politics. Bored and under-employed they have returned with their insurance policy - their passport - tightly gripped. They have come back to a growing economy and to a place where last September's elections for the Legislative Council have changed the political landscape. The government, in the past rarely held accountable for its decisions, now finds it has to make a case for its policies, from bus fares to taxation. They wish to retain Hong Kong's free-wheeling capitalist system, are suspicious of their elected brethren whom, they claim with some justice, wish to spend the colony's wealth before it is earned. This group also seeks a non-confrontational policy towards China, believing that it is better to work with the future ruler than to antagonise it. Broadening political representation in his cabinet is one not entirely risk-free way, but is an option which if skilfully handled could repay handsome domestic dividends. 