United Nations Security Council; November 29, 1990;...; War Pros; Here are the major justifications for war that have been advanced by Bush or his supporters:; Counter aggression:; Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait has posed the first crisis of the post-Cold War world. If a new, peaceful international order is to be established, Iraq's aggression must be rebuffed quickly and decisively.; Sanctions won't work:; Although sanctions have shut down Iraq's trade and squeezed its economy, they could take a year or more to inflict widespread hardship. The onset of blistering hot weather will also make U.S. ground operations difficult between March and October.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; War Cons; Here are some of the main reasons cited by Bush's critics for not going to war.; World cop:; Once again, the United States is bearing a disproportionate share of the burden of combating aggression. Fundamentalists in the Middle East would be emboldened, U.S. allies would be threatened and anti-American resentment would be heightened.; Kuwait: Before Iraq's invasion, the Bush administration took no position on Iraq's border dispute with Kuwait. Some of Iraq's differences with Kuwait may be legitimate.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; HOW THE WAR MIGHT UNFOLD; PHASE 1 (DAY ONE TO THREE) (includes small graphics); Objective: Destroy the country's air defense systems, air force installations and command centers through bombing raids, cutting off most of the Iraqi troops from Baghdad's central command. Radar-jamming planes such as the F-4G and EC-130 would disrupt Iraqi communications equipment.; F-16 fighters would launch air-to-surface missiles to take out Iraqi missile sites that could pose a threat to Saudi Arabia or Israel. Warplanes would attack Saddam at likely locations in Baghdad and throughout Iraq.; Obstacles: The key problem would be disabling Iraqi rocket launchers and array of anti-aircraft artillery.;...; PHASE 2 (DAY FOUR TO SIX); Objective: To eradicate Iraq's chemical sites and nuclear research facilities. Raids on Iraqi ground troops and an initial Infantry thrust would begin.; F-111s, based in Turkey, would destroy northern and western targets, while F-111s in Saudi Arabia would demolish southern targets.; Having rid the Iraqi skies of planes, aircraft would conduct low-level bombings of sites in both Kuwait and Iraq, where troops have dug in. The hope Is that such firepower, never experienced by Iraqi troops, would demoralize them.; U.S. Army and Marine infantry would begin their advance into Iraq from Saudi Arabia. With Iraq's ground forces stunned, Turkish and Syrian troops amassed on the northern border would invade.; Obstacles: Though most Iraqi air defenses and forces could be eliminated, many of the country's enormous supply of air defense guns would be functional and deadly. More likely to bog down the alliance is the static defense line the Iraqis have built up around Kuwait, which include concrete trenches; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; INTERNATIONAL FORCES IN THE GULF; Iraqi forces total 1,030,000. He is up against an array of International troops and firepower, some of which is listed below.; Superpowers (includes map); United States: More than 430,000 military troops or personnel are in the gulf region or on the way. The Pentagon has also sent Stealth fighter-bombers and hundreds of other aircraft.; Soviet Union: One destroyer and an anti-submarine ship.;...; Europe (includes map); Belgium: Two mine hunters and a supply ship.; Britain: Has a flotilla of 10 ships in the gulf and has contributed three warships, plus about 40 bombers and fighter-jets. President Bush freezes Iraqi and Kuwaiti assets in the United States, bans trade with Iraq and bars Iraqi aircraft and ships from U.S. ports; 3: Arab League condemns invasion.; 6: U.N. Security Council authorizes economic sanctions against Iraq. And whether congressional approval is needed tor war.; 60% Need; 40% Do not need; Source: For national figures, The Washington Post and ABC News. 