Instead, it could exacerbate the criticism from the right, where conservatives are increasingly expressing their doubts about the president, and where his renomination is under challenge. One high-ranking official said Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner is almost certain to get one of those two jobs -- probably the chief of staff position. Moreover, top Republicans on Capitol Hill, as well as some administration officials, say Mr. Skinner has a penchant for abrasiveness, although he is hardly Mr. Sununu's equal on that score. Many prominent Republican politicians as well as businessmen would love to see him get the job. The defense secretary is widely credited for his performance during the Persian Gulf War and is well-remembered for his stint as chief of staff under Gerald Ford a decade and a half ago. But the conservative defense secretary has said he wouldn't take the job again under any circumstances. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas called the president aboard Air Force One yesterday and urged that Carla Hills, the U.S. trade representative, be given the job. The end of Mr. Sununu's reign at the White House came without the blustery self-confidence that was the mark of the governor's suzerainty. He was almost desperately casting around for support in the official Washington circles that he disregarded only a few weeks ago. But even as he made telephone calls around the country he was still seeking signs of support, often from those he had spurned in office. The former governor's extended tenure also reflected the president's unwillingness to dismiss people who have served him with loyalty. It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen. Nevertheless, administration officials say it's unlikely Mr. Sununu's departure will mean major changes in economic strategy. Vin Weber of Minnesota, even took the unusual step of calling a news conference yesterday to voice their support for him. Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues. Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues. One area where Mr. Sununu's influence was clearly felt was abortion, where he held the administration to a stringent antiabortion stance. His departure is likely to increase their suspicions, unless Mr. Bush names a successor who is viewed as a conservative. Earlier this year he made headlines again when his extensive use of government airplanes for political and personal travel became public. He knew that without that expression of full support, he would have to depart. In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office. He seemed to indicate that Mr. Bush's wishes had dictated the combative style that made him so many enemies in Washington. Alfonse D'Amato of New York, swiftly introduced legislation that caused a furor in financial markets. Shortly before boarding the presidential aircraft in Mississippi, Mr. Sununu told reporters that he knew the rules of the game when he came to town. But his fall yesterday reflected his ignorance of those rules and his refusal to abide by them. 