Employees at businesses ranging from retail operations to Wall Street brokerage firms will soon be much less likely to have to play truth or consequences with lie detectors. A bill signed into law Monday by President Reagan will sharply restrict employers' use of polygraph tests. Currently, about two million U.S. workers annually take such tests when applying for jobs or when companies are investigating theft or other employee violations. 27, bars pre-hiring polygraph screening and random testing, and it sets strict rules about giving the tests to workers suspected of a particular wrongdoing. Some businesses, including pharmaceutical companies and many firms that provide security guards for operations related to health and safety, are exempt from the ban. Critics of polygraph testing, who claim it's both unreliable and subject to potential abuse, are welcoming the restrictions. But many employers -- as well as many of the outside companies that typically administer the tests -- argue that the measure will crimp security. Wall Street firms, for example, commonly use lie detectors for investigations and pre-employment interviews, mainly of individuals who are likely to deal with confidential information. A survey of some 160 large banks, taken about 18 months ago by the Bank Administration Institute at a bank-security seminar, found that 78% of the banks used polygraphs to check up on their employees. This, the trade group says, is far more than the percentage that undertake background investigations, criminal-record checks or urine testing for drug use. Victor Kaufman, president of New York Lie Detection Laboratories, a security-services firm whose clients include a number of brokerage houses, figures the law will knock out about 98% of our polygraph business. At present, polygraph results generally aren't considered admissible evidence in federal court and are similarly banned in the courts of 27 states. They later became cooperative witnesses for the commission, Mr. Lynch says, and it turns out they were lying to the lie detector. Among the opponents was the Justice Department, which tried to persuade President Reagan to veto the bill. Edward Kennedy, the liberal Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Senate Labor Committee, calls polygraphs 20th-century witchcraft. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the committee's ranking Republican, says 500,000 honest people each year are branded as liars by false lie-detector results. 