Michael Milken may be gone from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., but his deal-making days aren't done. Despite the racketeering and securities fraud indictment hanging over him and his forced resignation from Drexel in June, Milken hasn't retreated to the sidelines. When Drexel's former junk bond chief announced plans for the firm, he said it would help members of minority groups and unions raise the capital to own companies. And, four months after it was founded, ICAG appears to be doing just that. Since leaving Drexel, Milken has had talks with many of his old firm's clients, according to a senior Drexel executive. In exchange for Milken's brainpower and contacts in arranging refinancing, ICAG expects to receive an ownership stake in most of the companies that it helps. He refuses to discuss ICAG's fees or even confirm that he expects the company to be profitable. At Drexel, Milken essentially created the market for high-yield, high-risk junk bonds, and he revolutionized the way that capital was raised for medium-sized U.S. companies. He also turned junk bonds into a potent tool in corporate takeovers and leveraged buyouts. Now, Milken seems determined to prove that the government's case against him will not stop him from carrying out his ideas. An ordinary person might be overwhelmed by the chore of preparing a legal defense against a 98-count felony indictment. Among activities involving minorities, Milken has put groups of minority businessmen in contact with potential backers. And he says that enough progress has been made on some deals that they may soon be announced publicly. He says that the talks broke down because they involved too many lenders and stockholders who simply couldn't come to terms on a variety of issues. From a legal standpoint, Milken could apply for such licenses, since he has yet to be convicted of anything. For practical reasons, however, he has chosen not to, and so must rely on other firms to perform these services for his clients. Because he is under indictment, New Jersey and Nevada gaming authorities have indicated that they might take legal steps against casino operators who do business with him. And though Milken's press spokesman and personal lawyer strongly deny it, a number of potential clients are frightened of having their names publicly associated with him. He said the commercial banks with which his company does business have indicated that they might stop lending to him if he does. And there are still plenty of well-known executives who praise Milken publicly and wish his company success. Steven J. Ross, co-chairman of the recently merged Time Warner Inc., said: Mike has to be one of the most brilliant financial minds of our time. We have factors that we never make public about any of our business dealings, he said, adding: That's not to be construed that we are or aren't. Complete with financial data computer screens, it looks remarkably like a trading desk. The firm currently has about 20 employees, with more expected to join soon. Officials at the new firm say they are aren't making overtures to lure Drexel employees to ICAG. But Milken doesn't rule out talking to former Drexel colleagues who may, on their own, contact him about a job. He refuses to discuss how much capital the firm has, a key measure of the potential scope of its activities. Their new firm, Wasserstein Perella &amp; Co., was established as a corporate takeover boutique. Milken adds: There's so much we can do to help people, I just don't think it's something we're interested in. There are some companies today that aren't knocking the cover off the ball, and yes, we are willing to help, he says. As ICAG takes on customers, one thorny issue is its relations with current Drexel customers. What this means precisely hasn't been defined and could be a source of further SEC action. It's not clear, for example, whether legal problems would arise if a company hired Drexel to underwrite securities according to a recapitalization plan drawn up by Milken. Still, the adviser acknowledges that it's something that exists, and we're conscious of it. Some current Drexel clients say they wouldn't be troubled by feelings of disloyalty if they also decided to seek help from ICAG. One ICAG staff member says Milken's old competitors today are more than happy to do business with him, now that he's no longer directly competing. One big, unanswered question is what will become of the firm if Milken is convicted and sent to prison. Meanwhile, Time Warner's Ross says: He's got such a brilliant mind that I think he could do 10 things at one time and still prepare for what he's about to undergo. 