Alaska's governor, meanwhile, declared once-pristine Prince William Sound a disaster area as the toll on the waterway's abundant wildlife began to mount. "It's Exxon's policy that in the waters that the ship was located in, the captain should have been on the bridge," Dunphy said. An Exxon spokeswoman, Sharon Curran-Wescott, said she believed Cousin's actions violated federal regulations. He wasn't authorized by the company, nor was it legal," she said. There is a full investigation that will occur on the incident," Dunphy said, adding that the captain is consulting with an attorney. As clean-up efforts continued Sunday, fishermen fearing lost income sought compensation Sunday. "We're not ready to absorb any loss," said Riki Ott, spokeswoman for United Fishermen of Alaska. Ten supertankers remained anchored 33 miles from Valdez, unable to move toward shore because the harbor remains closed. Steve Cowper declared Prince William Sound a disaster area, freeing state resources for cleanup and paving the way for a federal disaster declaration. "It requires the most thorough response we can muster and this disaster declaration is an important part of that response. More than four miles of floating boom had been placed in an effort to contain the oil, the Coast Guard said Sunday. An additional 3,000 feet was to be deployed at Galena Bay at the request of fishermen. Tests were under way to determine if dispersal chemicals should be used despite the potential for environmental damage. The agents need wave action to help break up the thick crude oil. However, the wind and waves may make it more difficult to skim oil off the water, said Coast Guard Lt. Environmentalists, the governor and other top state officials have accused Exxon and Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. of responding too slowly to the spill. Alyeska operates the terminal at Valdez that loads tankers with North Slope crude. "We want to make sure we don't make any mistakes in cleaning up the spill." The ship's captain and two bridge crew members, including Cousins, were relieved of duty Saturday and subpoenaed by the NTSB. The three were administered routine tests for drug and alcohol abuse, but the results were not immediately available, officials said. Many are concerned they will get only minimal harvests because of the oil damage, and then will face the longer-term problem of bad publicity. "This could ruin our reputation in Asian markets for years to come," said Jim Brown, a netter. Rick Steiner of the University of Alaska Marine Advisory Program said the beaches on which the herring spawn could be polluted. 