Carnival officials acknowledged that nobody was watching the radar at the time, but have refused to cooperate with a U.S. investigation, despite federal subpoenas. Automatic fire extinguishers and the emergency generator failed, plunging much of the smoke-filled ship into darkness. Because many of the crew members spoke no English, they offered little help to the terrified passengers. A little bit of laxity, warns James Burnett, a member of the board, could cost you {the lives of} 1,200 people. Foreign-registered vessels make up the vast majority of cruise ships sailing from U.S. ports and catering to Americans. If these companies are going to have their fleets based in the U.S. and carry primarily U.S. passengers, then they should meet U.S. standards, says one safety board staffer. An industry spokeswoman says the cruise-ship companies welcome any safety suggestions but question the need for more regulation. Diana Orban, a spokeswoman for Cruise Lines International Association, a New York-based group that has 35 members, notes that only two people have been killed on cruise ships serving U.S. ports since 1970. (Both were passengers on the Scandinavian Sun, another Bahamian ship, when it caught fire in August 1984.) Ships operating from U.S. ports carried about five million passengers last year, and in anticipation of continued growth, 20 cruise ships are under construction around the world. The problems, the safety board said, include inadequate fire-fighting equipment and crew training, language barriers and lax accident reporting and investigating. Many Americans hoping for a bon voyage wrongly assume that ships sailing from U.S. ports operate under the supervision of the U.S. government. Many of them sail under the so-called flags of convenience of Liberia, Panama and the Bahamas. In some cases, passengers tried to fight their way through smoke-choked hallways to get back to their cabins to get their safety jackets. The Coast Guard, says Board Chairman James Kolstad, needs more teeth to ensure that the vessels are safe when they leave American ports. Despite its strongly worded report, the NTSB knows it could be years before the safety standards for cruise ships are upgraded. 