Foodstuffs are among the goods being blocked from entry; Iraq imports about three-quarters of its food. "What we fear is that they will be interned somewhere, most likely in Iraq," Waldegrave said. A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than 450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq has continued to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they now number about 160,000. He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the real occupiers in the Persian Gulf. "We believe that his words cannot distract the world from the facts of Iraqi aggression." An international land, sea and air force has mobilized since Iraq's invasion, which was sparked by disputes over oil, land and repayment of war loans. In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, an estimated 20,000 American GIs have already massed to defend Saudi Arabia. "We don't just arrive," said four-star Gen. John Dailey, assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed ground troops, to a much lesser degree. They are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and Belgium. Bush was expected to authorize naval commanders to use "the minimum force necessary" to interdict shipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. "They don't want to play with us," one U.S. crew chief said. He declined to say if the weapons included missiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The combined operations are designed to isolate and strangle Iraq until it retreats from Kuwait. Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves with its conquest of Kuwait. The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitors worldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading. A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates, streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highway bound for Iraq. The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he told reporters he had no message from Baghdad. Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members had filed compliance reports by Wednesday, and all were honoring the sanctions Iraq. The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars are patrolling the streets of Baghdad. 