Attorneys for Mr. Milken dismiss the suggestion as absurd and say Mr. Milken's potential liability won't be nearly so extensive. While some shareholder attorneys routinely file multimillion-dollar suits whenever a takeover is announced or the market drops, the suits against Mr. Milken seem to be much more likely to succeed than most. Consider: -- Mr. Milken's guilty plea to six felony counts Tuesday makes it impossible for him to claim in civil cases that he was guilty of no market fraud. Thus, any judgment against Mr. Milken above mere compensatory damages would have to come out of his own pocket. All of this sounds like good news to Richard Greenfield, one of the nation's top shareholder lawyers. As he eagerly scanned the early wire reports of the plea Tuesday, Mr. Greenfield said Mr. Milken should seriously contemplate filing for bankruptcy-court protection. It's a very real possibility, said Mr. Greenfield, who has filed several cases against Mr. Milken. Steven Rosenfeld, an attorney for Mr. Milken, says there are no plans whatsoever for his client to seek bankruptcy-court protection. It alleges a back-scratching arrangement by which Mr. Milken teamed up with high-profile corporate raiders to manipulate stock prices in huge acquisitions. The suit, which seeks $2.3 billion in trebled damages, claims that more than 70 defendants violated the RICO law. Under the alleged arrangement, Mr. Milken shared secret information with market operatives and backed the takeover attempts of such raiders as Carl Icahn, Ronald Perelman, T. Boone Pickens and others. The raiders felt obligated to buy the bonds because they wanted Mr. Milken to fund their future takeover attempts, the suit says. Meanwhile, at Mr. Milken's direction, arbitragers would purchase big blocks of stock in the target company with guarantees against loss provided by Mr. Milken, the suit claims. While the Unocal suit claims enormous damages to shareholders, a suit filed by Mr. Greenfield's firm in February may be even broader. The firm sued on behalf of at least 10,000 class members who purchased high-yield, high-risk bonds underwritten by and sold through Drexel. They charged that the junk bond market was rigged, that prices were artificially determined and that without Mr. Milken to act as puppeteer, the market fell apart. Many of these cases are pending in federal court in New York, where pretrial fact-finding has been slowed because of the unavailability of Mr. Boesky, Mr. Milken and others to testify at depositions. Thus far, federal prosecutors have gotten the judge to deny the plaintiffs' lawyers access to these witnesses while criminal investigations are being pursued. Chairman Mr. Perelman and his MacAndrews &amp; Forbes Holdings Inc., The suit casts a net very broadly and names a lot of people in the process. Instead, the lawyers must attempt to show juries patterns of trades in which prices appear to be rigged and raise the issue of how the securities were priced. I suspect they fought hard on that, and my guess is they were pretty successful at it, Mr. Bromberg says. Recently Robert Freeman, former Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. head of arbitrage, successfully blocked inclusion of such broader allegations in the government's sentencing memo. Thus, the government's full case against Mr. Freeman, who had pleaded guilty to just one insider trading charge, was kept from public view. But settlements work only if both sides believe they are making a fair compromise, considering what the damages might be if the case went to trial. DEFENDANTS: Defendants include Michael and Lori Milken, T. Boone Pickens, Paul Bilzerian, Carl Icahn, Irwin Jacobs, Ronald Perelman and many others. 