Shaken, thousands of people are crowding into earthquake survival classes. In Arnold, Mo., 3,000 people showed up for one course. In Missouri and Arkansas, some schools and businesses have announced plans to close in early December. Entrepreneurs are hawking quake insurance, survival kits and gas-line safety gadgets. But the Midwest actually has had three of the most powerful earthquakes on this continent. Researchers estimate those earthquakes ranked stronger than 8 on the Richter Scale, which hadn't been invented yet. They were more than 10 times greater than the 7.1 quake that rocked California's Bay Area last October. The New Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid) fault still has 150 small, mostly unfelt, earthquakes a year. That could produce billions of dollars in damage and thousands of casualties. New Madrid, Mo., the fault's namesake, draws tourists to a museum with exhibits on the 19th century devastation. And Paragould, Ark., has held earthquake festivals with events like the Miss Faultless beauty contest. That's because the predictor has gained credibility in some important circles for his work on the climate. 19, 1985, along a band of latitude that included Mexico City -- where a massive quake struck on that day. Mr. Browning says that will exert pressure that could trigger faults already ripe to fail. The New Madrid area has a 50-50 chance of producing at least a 7 quake on Dec. No one else has been able to replicate it, but that doesn't mean it's wrong. Mr. Browning says it's not easy being on record with predictions that few other scientists will support. (pop: 24,314), tucked amid vast flat farmland, right at the corner of the Arkansas, Tennessee and Missouri borders. Says Jimmy Connell, plant superintendent, It's going to be a ghost town around here. You have to be prepared to take complete care of yourself for 24 hours to two weeks. After the seminar, two elderly sisters, both widows, split on what to do. Fearing their home will be looted, Bess Mann, 86 years old, wants to ride it out. But her sister, Hallie Peterson, 83, wants to stay with their nephew in Mississippi. School districts in Earle and Wilson, Ark., have announced closings around Dec. 3. Some schools practice earthquake drills, while others sponsor cake sales to buy survival kits for classrooms, with items like blankets, flashlights and radios. In 11 years of studying prediction methods, the panel has found no bona fide approach. The group usually ignores claims that aren't scientifically documented (like the one by the California man who said his goldfish helped him predict quakes). 