Mother Nature conspired against this struggling marathon Sunday, serving up balmy, windy weather and wilting both the men's and women's fields. The heat sapped the strength of most runners, giving the patient and steady runners a distinct advantage. Among the women, Lisa Weidenbach of Issaquah, Wash., repeated as champion, with a personal best of 2:28:15, impressive under the circumstances. That developed, at points, Sunday, as about 8,000 runners started at Daley Plaza downtown and wended their way through city streets. Those early leaders: El-Mostafa Nechchadi of Morocco, Don Janicki of Colorado, Gerardo Alcala of Mexico, Carlos Montero of Spain and Gabriel Kamau of Kenya. They did the early work against the wind, while a second pack hovered 20 seconds behind. Davies-Hale had been among those who had cagily stayed back, going with a more conservative approach. The two quickly went in different directions -- Binns falling back (he eventually dropped out) and Davies-Hale moving up. In the women's race, Weidenbach had not been the favorite and she agreed with that handicapping. To be honest with you, I was afraid of Cathy (O'Brien), she said. She took off in Sunday's race with authority and ran with a 20-30-second cushion for 15 miles. They shared some water, then Weidenbach tossed aside the water bottle and put on a surge that left O'Brien flat. It was also where dozens of her family members and friends were posted. Given the heat, the humidity and the wind, Weidenbach's time might have been as much as two minutes faster. Even the 2:28 is respectable -- only five U.S. women have run under 2:30. Like his fellow countrymen, he's low-key and practical and not interested in speculating. I may run another marathon next year... but I really want to get back on the track. That may be so, but all major marathons have drug testing and Chicago has none. Race director Tim Murphy said the race was not selected by The Athletics Congress, which governs the sport, to conduct testing.... 