Milken, 42, who has been on a leave of absence from Drexel since March 29, on Thursday submitted his resignation. The settlement now is expected to go into effect within the next few weeks. It requires Drexel to terminate Milken's employment and also avoid any direct or indirect business dealings with him. Milken's brother, Lowell Milken, 39, also resigned Thursday from Drexel. Michael Armstrong, Lowell Milken's lawyer, said his client hasn't decided yet where he will practice. Within a decade, his pioneering use of high-yield, high-risk junk bonds had transformed Drexel from a second-tier brokerage firm into one of Wall Street's most powerful investment banking houses. The government is also demanding that he forfeit $1.85 billion under the racketeering charges. Steven Anreder, Drexel's spokesman, said: Michael Milken made many important contributions to Drexel Burnham, and his resignation, although not unexpected, is a sad event. Milken was somewhat vague about exactly what the new firm will do or how many people it will employ. His personal spokesman, Ken Lerer, said it would start out with fewer than 10 employees. For the time being, Milken's legal problems probably will prevent him from competing directly with Drexel, individuals involved in the legal cases said. Milken's lawyers haven't said yet whether they will challenge that provision of the settlement in court. If it goes into effect, however, it conceivably could force clients to choose between dealing with Milken or Drexel. Milken also declined to say if he might refer clients to firms other than Drexel for investment banking services. Some observers have viewed this as part of an overall public relations campaign at a time when he is in trouble. They note that Milken typically would work from 4:30 a.m. until about 6 p.m. I think Michael is desperate to find something to do, a former Drexel colleague said. Gary Lynch, the SEC's director of enforcement, declined to comment Thursday on Milken's decision to open a new business. The Milken brothers still face SEC civil charges as well as the separate criminal charges. Federal prosecutors are expected to bring a new indictment within the next several months containing additional charges. Sources confirmed Thursday that another former Drexel employee, Reed Harmon, who had worked closely with Milken, was recently granted immunity in exchange for testimony before a grand jury. Boesky, suspected of widespread insider trading, pleaded guilty to one criminal count and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. The guilty plea would be made after the firm's separate settlement with the SEC goes into effect. 