Instead, Anthony Flores, 22, was charged with five misdemeanor counts of resisting arrest. The men involved in three of the five incidents have filed police brutality lawsuits against the city, the department or the police officers involved. The suits, which seek unspecified damages and medical and legal expenses, are pending. But Jean Farley, a supervisor for the Ventura County public defender's office, said it is extremely rare for the district attorney's office not to prosecute a suspect who is accused by police. Prosecution is usually turned down when the arresting officer is suspected of using excessive force, she said. Assistant Police Chief William Kady declined to discuss the brutality allegations against the Oxnard officers because of pending litigation. He said, however, that the decisions by the district attorney's office not to prosecute the suspects do not reflect poorly on the department. Flores and his brothers, Alex, 19, and Luis Jr., 24 -- all of whom suffered gashes and scrapes on their heads and bodies -- said the officers beat them without provocation. Based upon my review of all the reports, the charges were the most appropriate charges to file, said Deputy Dist. In an incident April 7, Sergio E. Gonzalez, 19, accused Oxnard officers of ordering a police dog to attack him before he was arrested. Gonzalez was taken to St. John's Regional Medical Center, where he underwent surgery and spent two weeks recovering from his injuries. Edward M. Fox, an attorney representing Gonzalez, said his client, a gardener, might suffer some permanent injury to his right arm. Cole's report said Gonzalez was found hiding in the parking lot and was bit by a police service dog during the arrest. But the district attorney's office declined to file any charges because the police report failed to show that Gonzalez was involved in the altercation, Brodie said. Fox said Gonzalez did not attend the wedding but was visiting a friend nearby and went to the parking lot to find out what was causing the commotion. In a third incident, Louis M. Cornett, a retired teacher and licensed gun dealer, said he was beaten on Oct. But a lawsuit against Camarillo filed May 8, 1989, alleges that while in custody at the police station, Camarillo shoved and punched Cornett in the mouth. The district attorney's office declined to file charges against Cornett because, Brodie said, there was insufficient evidence to prove that Cornett brandished a gun. In a fourth incident, Alejandro Guzman-Flores, 21, accused three Oxnard officers of beating him on his face, causing severe damage to his eyesight. 14, 1989, the Police Department and officers Jana Younger, Fred Sedillos and James Struck, Guzman-Flores contends that he was grabbed from behind by Younger while in the alley. But Flores' lawyer, Sherrie L. McCracken, said the report states that officers were at the shop responding to a complaint of a man with a gun. Flores was handcuffed and shoved to the ground, causing Sedillos to trip and fall on him, according to the suit. Sedillos got up and punched and kicked Flores several times while Younger held Flores in a choke-hold, the suit alleges. When he asked the officer why he was being shoved, Ruggiero told him that he was under arrest, according to the complaint. He failed, however, to submit the claim for damages during the statutory six-month period after the incident and was barred by law from filing a lawsuit. 