From a helicopter, the wave-washed beach looks as if the worst oil spill in U.S. history had never touched it. Dashing out as the chopper lands, he digs into the cobble beach and quickly finds what he knew he would. There are hundreds of beaches all over the sound that are still oiled, and the oil is slowly bleeding out. Certainly, the worst is over; thousands of dead birds no longer wash up on shorelines as they did last summer. A cleanup army of 12,000 workers polished rocks by hand, blasted beaches with hot water and sprayed fertilizer to promote the growth of oil-eating microbes. But when Exxon suspended its $2 billion cleanup in mid-September, it had recovered only 5 percent to 9 percent of the oil spilled, state officials estimate. That leaves 50 percent to 75 percent of the oil in the water, on the ocean bottom or on beaches. Workers found more than 1,000 dead otters, a sizable chunk of the spill area's total population of 15,000 to 22,000. Many of Prince William Sound's 3,000 bald eagles also suffered; at least 151 died, most poisoned by scavenging the oily remains of some of the 34,400 dead seabirds recovered. But that may take up to 70 years for some hard-hit seabird colonies, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service researchers say. "We never claimed that the spill put any animal on the endangered species list, but that's missing the point," said Fish and Wildlife spokesman Bruce Batten. Oily carcasses were an obvious measure of the spill's impact, but victims also included less visible members of the ecosystem, such as young salmon and tiny intertidal creatures. Exxon distributes before-and-after pictures of cleaned beaches; Bridgman and other state officials, accusing Exxon of "myth-making," eagerly make room for journalists on flights to oiled beaches. State officials cite an October survey that showed 117 miles of shoreline remained moderately or heavily oiled, with oil more than two feet deep in some spots. They say observers flying over the sound still report 15 to 20 oil sheens bleeding off beaches daily. 