We don't get smarter just because we sit next to white people in class, and we don't progress just because society is ready with handouts. As a people, we need to find solutions to problems through independence, perseverance and integrity. As a society, we should develop better policies to deal with the underclass than the failed solutions of the past. When I hear a case, I know damn well that something is going to happen as a result of what I decide. And these are people looking to me, to the judge, to figure out what's just, to correctly apply the law. Many of Mr. Thomas's critics have taken his unconcealed admiration for Ronald Reagan, his former boss, and Robert Bork, his predecessor on the D.C. Circuit as evidence that Mr. Thomas shares their philosophy of jurisprudence. When you're up before those confirmation hearings, it's like going through Dante's Inferno.... When reminded of Thurgood Marshall's comment that he could not wholeheartedly celebrate the bicentennial of the American founding because the Constitution permitted slavery, Mr. Thomas shook his head. Abraham Lincoln once said that the American founders declared the right of equality whose enforcement would follow as soon as circumstances permitted. I believe in the American proposition, the American dream, because I've seen it in my own life. His father left before he could walk, and his mother worked as a housemaid and picked crabs from the marsh to eat and sell. It is here, under the stern tutelage of his grandfather, Myers Anderson, that Mr. Thomas locates the beginning of his true education. My grandfather has been the greatest single influence on my life, he claims. In 1987 he told the Atlantic, When the civil rights people indict me, the man they are indicting is that man. As Mr. Thomas remembers, his grandfather believed that Man ain't got no business on relief as long as he can work. These lessons of hard work, personal dignity and self-sufficiency were reinforced through years of Catholic school and college. He finished his undergraduate studies at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. He went on to Yale Law School, where he worked summers at New Haven Legal Assistance, continuing what he calls my political consciousness raising. Eventually he took a job with Missouri Attorney General (now Senator) John Danforth because he promised to treat me like anyone else. Under the Carter administration, the agency had zealously promoted numerical goals and timetables. Thomas came in, and he rejected all that, remarks William Robinson, dean of the District of Columbia School of Law. But the storm clouds melted away and Mr. Thomas was approved by the Senate Judiciary with a 12-1 majority. Our judicial philosophy may not be the same, but he is a bright and reflective man who believes passionately in fairness. I say this without reservation, and in full knowledge of all the people who complain about him. Dean Robinson added, People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think, but Clarence is his own man. The problem for my opponents, and for my friends, is that I don't think I fit any of these molds very well. 