Abuelita was not very old -- just 62 -- but there was not much the doctors could do to save her life. She had uncontrolled diabetes: her kidneys were failing, her blood pressure was too high and she finally died of a heart attack. Consuelo and Abuelita aren't actual people, but their story nevertheless is played over and over again among the more than 3 million Latinos in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, health officials say. Nationwide, it is estimated that there are more than 2 million Latinos who already have diabetes, many of them undiagnosed. Like heart disease, the adult-onset diabetes most common among Latinos is a condition that can be largely prevented with proper diet and exercise, doctors say. Many people think that when Latinos come here (to the United States) they gain weight because they continue to eat the way they ate at home. What happens is, fast foods are readily available... and they are higher in fat and calories. And at home they didn't have a car, and here instead of walking we take the car to go one block. More of this kind of effort and wider education among the public and physicians can be expected in the future, said Janet Matkin, of the association's California affiliate. It results from the body's failure to make insulin or, some studies indicate, from its inability to use insulin that is available. Most commonly in Latinos, however, diabetes takes the form called Type II, which first appears in adulthood and often can be controlled with proper diet and exercise. But, because it progresses slowly, Type II diabetes can go undiagnosed for years, allowing complications such as kidney failure, heart disease, blindness and the need for amputation of a foot or toe. Latinos, who often have less access to regular health care than Anglos, are more likely to go undiagnosed, Matkin said. In some states like California or Texas, if nothing is done we're going to pay so much money for health care for people of Latino origin that it may become prohibitive. Yet life-style changes today to cut down on obesity can prevent many of those cases from ever occurring, health officials say. Any Latino woman whose child was born at 9 pounds or larger should consider herself at risk of diabetes and alter her diet, Davidson said. He pointed to the recent indications that Americans' risk of heart disease is lowering as examples of how educational programs can work. I think that if we give them the opportunity and the tools that Latinos are no different than anybody else, Davidson said. TELEPHONE NUMBERS For brochures or more information on diabetes, call American Diabetes Assn., (800) 828-8293; (213) 381-3639; or (714) 662-7940. 