One reason is that term limits would open up politics to many people now excluded from office by career incumbents. One of the authors, Sherry Bockwinkel, says You won't see white incumbents hanging on to districts that long ago became largely minority. She thinks term limits will give women more opportunities in politics; her GOP opponent refused to support federal term limits. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, the only American Indian in Congress, backed a term limit measure last year that restricted his own tenure. Harry Truman and John F. Kennedy both endorsed the idea while they were president. I saw incumbents spend their time fund-raising and worrying about how to stay in office. He notes both groups opposed term limits in his home state; the California initiative included budget cuts that retired more than 700 legislative staffers. Other former Democratic governors who favor term limits include Vermont's Madeleine Kunin and Colorado's RichardLamm. While many prominent Democrats support term limits, party apparatchiks are dead set against them. Intimidation like that has slowed support for term limits among Democratic officeholders, but there are exceptions. Ann Richards says she would be glad to sign a bill limiting congressional and legislative terms. Columnist Ellen Goodman says We have to learn once again that ideal public service is, by definition, temporary. She thinks the current Congress proves the politically privileged class has become more isolated than experienced. Such recent body-blows to Congress as Kitegate and the Clarence Thomas hearings have convinced some liberal media outlets to reevaluate term limits. The liberal Seattle Times, Washington state's largest newspaper, stunned its readers by endorsing term limits. WCVB-TV, the ABC affiliate in Boston, has often had its liberal editorials called the Boston Globe of the airwaves. Among Democratic Party activists, James Calaway of Texas is typical of those who now favor term limits. Other Texas Democrats who have joined him include Frances Sissy Farenthold, who cochaired George McGovern's 1972 national campaign, and Leonel Castillo, Jimmy Carter's director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Neo-liberals, who believe that centralized bureaucracies are the biggest obstacle to reforming government, are also warming to term limits. 