Hazelwood's lawyer said he had not decided whether to waive extradition proceedings and return to Alaska to face the charges; Hazelwood was not required to enter a plea Wednesday. Fired by Exxon After the Exxon Valdez ran aground on March 24, Hazelwood was found to be legally drunk and was fired by Exxon. These misdemeanors are of such a magnitude that has never been equaled, at least in this country, Rohl said. FBI officials in Washington say they also are investigating whether Hazelwood could be charged with felony violations of the Clean Water Act, which prohibits negligent discharge of pollutants into navigable waters. No people have been killed or even seriously injured by the spill, but oil has seriously disrupted the rich Prince William Sound fishing industry. Also, animal-rescue teams estimate the spill has killed several thousand birds and hundreds of sea otters. Estimates of wildlife deaths are not easy to make because oiled birds are hard to spot from the air, and many beaches are difficult to reach for in person inspections. The state of Alaska condemned Exxon's cleanup on Wednesday and asked the Coast Guard to take over the effort. What they are really doing is managing the failure, Miller said after meeting with Aleut Indian residents in the tiny fishing village of Chenega Bay. Steve Cowper said the Coast Guard should be better able to handle coordination and management of the cleanup than Exxon, which he said was too bureaucratic. Although Cowper said he did not want to be extremely critical of Exxon, a letter sent to the Coast Guard by a state environmental official said Exxon had been unresponsive. President Bush earlier had sent a team of high-level officials to Valdez and determined that federal management of the cleanup was not necessary. Exxon spokesman Henry Beathard said the company disagreed with charges it was not handling the cleanup properly and thought Exxon was the best organization to manage the effort. The air forced out some of the 998,000 barrels of sea water that had been pumped into the stricken tanker as oil was removed. Naval architect Richard Smith, hired by Exxon, estimated before the refloat that the pressure would force enough water out of the hull to lift the ship at least three feet. However, flow through the Alaskan pipeline returned to its normal daily flow of 2.1 million barrels Wednesday, the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. said. 