Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat and Congress's leading voice on the debt problem. John LaFalce, a New York Democrat and another leader on the issue, agrees. House Democrats, in fact, cut out of the foreign-aid bill passed last month all $70 million the administration had sought for the first year of the U.S. share of the increase in capital. The deletion was made pending action by a committee looking into the bank's approach to the debt crisis. So far, Mr. Conable has approached the debt crisis more like a cautious financier than a bold politician. That policy contrasts sharply with some of the more aggressive debt-reduction plans. Defending his approach to the debt problem, Mr. Conable explains: We aren't a financial institution but a development institution. Obviously, that would be viewed as our not performing a development function but our simply accepting other people's risks. Even some Reagan administration officials privately despair of Mr. Conable's leadership and fear that it may have been a mistake to appoint him. Recently, commercial-bank lenders to Brazil tried to get the World Bank to insure a portion of a big new loan package they were negotiating. Secretary Baker says Mr. Conable is being criticized largely by legislators and academicians who favor grand debt-relief schemes that would take the debt and put it on the backs of the taxpayers. I'll tell you who'll pay for it: you and me when we file our 1040s. They want Barber to subscribe to it, and I think that he sees that it's a bad idea. Yet even inside the bank, there is increasing worry that the Third World debt -- totaling $1.19 trillion last year -- frustrates the bank's goals. Because of chronic debt problems... the development process in these countries has stalled, the World Bank said earlier this year. Also within the bank's own ranks, there is talk that could lead to a more aggressive role on debt once President Reagan leaves office. Baker's approach has to be adapted to the circumstances of today, says the bank's No. Partly in response to the external and internal pressures, Mr. Conable sent a debt study to his board early in April. The bank's own annual world-debt report illustrates its determination to stick to a back-seat role on the issue. But conspicuously absent from the report, which discussed debt-relief proposals from Secretary Baker, Sen. Under Robert McNamara, the bank began aiding efforts to alleviate rural poverty, control population growth and fight illiteracy. Under Mr. Conable, a low-key, thoughtful man with a self-deprecating sense of humor, new policies have been harder to discern. He has continued to increase the quick-disbursing, non-project loans but hasn't introduced any new type of lending. He also has set a goal for alleviating poverty in Asia and has won new financing to help the poor countries of Africa. One of these is the Safe Motherhood Initiative, a project designed to lower the high rate of deaths during childbirth, especially in Africa. Funds will be increased for related health and nutrition programs. Traditionally, conservatives have criticized the bank, charging that its policies promote central planning and thus discourages market forces. Maybe Conable genuinely agrees with Baker, in which case he should be lumped in with Baker for criticism. If he disagrees, maybe we'll see some new ideas at the World Bank. In 1986, the 17 nations paid back lenders $18 billion more than they got in new loans. However, that again was more than offset by commercial-bank outflows. Joseph Kennedy III, a Massachusetts Democrat, charges that the World Bank is just laundering funds that go back to the banks. Like Secretary Baker, Mr. Conable instinctively dismisses sweeping debt-relief plans as coercive or non-market-oriented. He was created by Jim Baker and George Bush in this job. 