How can 6,000 civil servants, mostly based in Washington, best promote development in the Third World? As bankers and finance ministers gathered in Washington this weekend for the spring meetings of the bank and International Monetary Fund, there was no shortage of advice. Development economists, meanwhile, are urging the bank to respect the rhetoric of last year's World Development Report and focus more on poverty alleviation. More than 110m Third World children lack access even to primary education. In Mexico, life expectancy for the poorest 10 per cent is 20 years less than for the richest 10 per cent. 'The morale of staff is lousy,' says Mr Charles Flickner, a senior analyst on the Senate Budget Committee and close observer of the bank. But neither Mr Conable nor his predecessor, Mr A W 'Tom' Clausen, a commercial banker, could fill his shoes. His third, one might add, will be quickly to establish his independence from the US Treasury which always browbeats a newcomer. In spite of recent progress in a few countries, such as Mexico, the past decade has been one of relative failure. Real per capita incomes have declined substantially in sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East, and mildly in Latin America. Many optimists see the debt reduction strategy launched by Mr Nicholas Brady, the US Treasury Secretary, in 1989, as a 'final solution' to the debt crisis. Under the plan official agencies assume some of the burden of developing countries' private debts on condition that they implement market-oriented economic reforms. 'The Brady plan is enough,' says Mr Williamson, if developing countries are willing to embrace reform and if it is matched by greater forgiveness of official debt. As incoming president, Mr Preston must review the bank's strategies for promoting development. Making finance conditional on structural reforms was supposed to transform the economic performance of developing countries. Professor John Toye, director of the Institute for Development Studies at Sussex University, recently completed an exhaustive analysis of bank programmes. He concludes (as do internal bank analyses) that policy-based lending has 'achieved something, particularly in relation to the external account, but not nearly as much as the bank and donor community hoped'. On average programmes have reduced balance of payments gaps, had a negligible impact on Gross National Product and led to falls in the ratio of investment to GNP. Some analysts, including US Treasury officials, believe lacklustre performance in much of the Third World reflects the inefficiency (and sometimes corruption) of governments. The EBRD's constitution requires borrowers to be 'committed to and applying the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and market economics'. It also says 60 per cent of EBRD resources must be devoted to the commercial sector - private businesses and state concerns in the process of privatisation. Such values are alien in many developing countries, but that does not imply they should be denied the means for economic development. If strict political conditionality had been imposed in the past, the bank could not have lent to a development star such as South Korea. Bank officials say greater attention will be paid to issues such as the rule of law and transparency of decision-taking. Sir William Ryrie, the head of the IFC, says the objective of a large volume of public lending to the private sector is wrong-headed. The bank's own research department is highlighting the need to relieve poverty directly and to improve fundamentals, such as education, nutrition and health care. He argues that the best way of stimulating growth and improving income distribution is to put resources into education and primary health care. More money could be made available: a mere 10 per cent cut in western defence spending, for example, would pay for a doubling of official aid. Rather than tamely accepting the status quo, Mr Preston could use his platform to promote a more constructive attitude in rich countries. 