"Almost everybody died," Zainiddin Nasreddinov, editor-in-chief of Tadzhikistan's official news agency, said by telephone after visiting the wrecked farming settlement of Sharora. Sharora "had more than 150 peasant households before that tragic moment," the Soviet news agency Tass reported. "Rescue work is being continued and distant mountain villages have not been checked yet," Tass said. EST Sunday) was centered about 20 to 30 miles southwest of Tadzhikistan's capital of Dushanbe, a city of more than 460,000 people, in the fertile Gissar district, a center of grapegrowing and livestock-raising, Tass said. 7 earthquake in northwestern Armenia, 1,300 miles west of Dushanbe, registered a 6.9 on the Richter scale and killed 25,000 people. Alexander Loparev, duty officer at Tadzhikistan Interior Ministry headquarters in Dushanbe said by telephone. In Okuli-Bolo and Okuli-Poyen, near the epicenter, "everything is destroyed _ all the homes, the schools, the hospitals and clinics, the stores," Nasreddinov said. "Some are bemoaning and burying their near and dear ones, while others are trying to find the few survivors between the thick layer of sand and clay." The TV news program "Vremya" showed aerial footage of Sharora, with white roofs of buried homes peeking through the dirt like seashells scattered on a beach. The hospital was evacuated of mothers and newborns before the wall of mud arrived and there were no victims, he said. It said thousands of acres of fertile farmland were covered "by a thick layer of sand and clay." "When the earthquake came, it was like a catapult, and it hurled the sodden earth onto the villages below," Kasimov said. According to Nasreddinov, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev telephoned Tadzhikistan officials to promise Moscow's help. In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Charles Redman said he knew of no request for assistance from the Soviets. "Our sympathy certainly goes out again to the victims of this most recent earthquake," he said. Soviet officials, including Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnaze, initially spoke of "thousands" of victims in the Armenian quake. 29, Armenian officials gave what they called an accurate death toll of 25,000. 