LOS ANGELES -- A federal grand jury indicted Charles H. Keating Jr. on fraud and racketeering charges, claiming the nation's largest thrift failure resulted from calculated looting by its principals. The 77-count indictment against the former American Continental Corp. chairman and four former associates came the same day the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Keating and nine others of insider trading and fraud in a civil lawsuit. The SEC also named David Paul, former chairman and chief executive of CenTrust Savings Bank, in the first case that charges both men, who have come to symbolize the excesses that led to the thrift debacle. Yesterday's federal indictment against Mr. Keating, who was convicted just last week on narrower state securities fraud charges, centered on five separate racketeering schemes. The defendants conveyed flatly inconsistent stories about ACC's financial prospects to purchasers of senior and subordinated notes, the indictment said. Lincoln, once the main subsidiary of Mr. Keating's Phoenix, Ariz.-based company, was seized by federal regulators in April 1989, a day after American Continental filed for bankruptcy-court protection. They victimized not only purchasers of bonds, but also the millions of American citizens who will be left holding the bag. Talking to reporters outside the courtroom, Mr. Keating's attorney, Mr. Neal, said: The indictment is an effort to retroactively criminalize a whole host of investment transactions that were legitimate when made. Ms. Baird said no property has been seized, but she declined comment as to whether Mr. Keating and the others retain any valuable holdings. The government's account of the alleged land-swap scheme detailed six separate sales totaling about $82 million, including three transactions in an area southeast of Phoenix, Ariz., known as Hidden Valley. By making these premature payments, Lincoln in effect paid ACC unauthorized dividends in the form of interest-free loans, to the detriment of Lincoln and the benefit of American Continental, the indictment said. To prevent the transfers from being challenged by the company's creditors, the indictment said, Mr. Keating and others disguised them as loans from a shell company, Medema Homes of Utah. On March 7, 1989, for example, just slightly over a month before the company filed for protection from creditors, Medema transferred about $300,000 to the elder Mr. Keating. That suit, also filed in Los Angeles, says that American Continental overstated its earnings by more than $120 million in financial statements from 1985 through 1988. 