IN BLOOD-RED letters, the sign on the front window of the Dealers Outlet gun store in suburban Phoenix declared: Urgent! Inside, customers took time out from browsing through AK-47 assault rifles and a flock of other firearms to sign a petition -- and to vent their wrath at a local turncoat, U.S. Sen. We are petitioning to protest the semiautomatic gun-control bills before Congress, read the text above a fast-growing list of names. The petitioners' target that sunny day last spring was DeConcini, a longtime opponent of gun-control measures who had suddenly switched sides, sponsoring one of the nine bills currently in Congress to ban the sale of assault weapons. And most recently, the group found itself caught in the furor over assault weapons that was ignited by the massacre of five children in a Stockton schoolyard last January. Those killings, combined with the increasing use of the weapons by drug dealers and youth gangs, have exacerbated the contentious relations between the NRA and its former allies. Law-enforcement leaders, concerned about rising violence and terrorism, have ended their friendliness toward the gun lobby and become well-organized in opposition. Meanwhile, California, whose voters only seven years ago defeated an initiative that would have frozen the number of handguns in the state, last May became the first state to ban assault weapons. Although enjoying a membership surge, the NRA ran up a record $5.9-million deficit last year after spending more than $83 million. We're at a crossroads, James Jay Baker, the NRA's top congressional lobbyist, acknowledged as DeConcini's assault-weapons bill cleared its first Senate hurdle in April. We're going to go down the road of either prohibitive firearms regulations or tough criminal justice provisions -- that is, more prosecutors, penalties and prisons, the course sought by the NRA. Aside from the nation's capital, two of the hottest battlegrounds in the assault-weapons fight are Arizona and Florida. That would seem ironic, since guns permeate the cultures of those generally conservative states. AS PAT JONAS signed the petition in the gun store near Phoenix, one could witness the NRA's true political power: mobilizing citizens at the grass roots. I don't want to see guns outlawed, Jonas said, because I like to collect guns. Probably no other organization in the world floods government officials with as many phone calls, letters, telegrams and visits from its members as the NRA. Charles J. Orasin, president of 15-year-old Handgun Control -- the NRA's chief nemesis -- estimates that as many as 500,000 members of the NRA and other gun groups regularly lobby elected officials and bureaucrats. The outpouring is prompted by red-alert mailings churned out by NRA leaders, all sounding essentially the same alarm: They're out to get your guns. In his letter, Baker called DeConcini's proposal a tragic mistake, charging that it could even block sales of traditional hunting rifles and lead to criminal charges against 30 million sportsmen who own semiautomatic guns. Does anyone seriously believe (Senate Bill) 747 will stop drug smugglers... who bring cocaine by the planeload... from bringing in any guns they want and selling them on the profitable black market Senator DeConcini's bill will create? Lies and Exaggerations GUN OWNERS' rage spread quickly after the NRA letter hit Arizona the last week of April. Aden believes that semiautomatic guns would come in handy if a Mexican revolution spilled over the border and Arizonans got caught in the cross fire. People are talking recall here, said Lee Echols, range master for the Phoenix Rod and Gun Club. Another member of the club, Bill Houston, telephoned DeConcini aide Matthew McCoy in his Washington office to protest. If the alternative were something more strict than DeConcini's legislation, how would you feel then? The recently re-elected senator said he was trying to head off more-drastic legislation from Metzenbaum and others, including California Democratic Reps. Howard L. Berman of Panorama City and Fortney H. (Pete) Stark of Oakland. But DeConcini was also careful to take political cover behind two Republicans who are NRA Life Members. He noted Bush's import ban and cited a salty declaration by Barry M. Goldwater, Arizona's venerable former senator, that semiautomatic guns have no place in anybody's arsenal. Now they need to get members and money, and that's why they're doing this to me.... Only 4 feet, 11 inches tall, she could barely be seen as she took the podium. Her gray slacks, blue ruffled blouse and blue suede jacket complemented her steel-blue eyes but belied her credentials: prize-winning marksman and hardball lobbyist for the Florida NRA. To her supporters, Hammer represents all that is strong about the NRA; to her detractors, much that is weak. Next, she dealt acidly with one of the NRA's prickliest political problems: There are some law-enforcement officers who are NRA members who are against us. But doomed as well, she claimed, would be firearms of traditional design long used by hunters and target shooters in one of the nation's gun-owningest states. Taking away firearms from law-abiding citizens who have lawfully owned them for decades is not the solution to violent crime, she declared. After all, two years earlier, Hammer had led a phenomenal victory for the NRA in Florida, winning passage of measures that threw out all locally imposed gun restrictions. The action was so sweeping that many Sunshine Staters thought that they had been freed to carry guns openly, Wild West-style. But it left intact all other provisions, including one making it much easier in many areas to obtain a concealed-weapon permit. Testimonials to Hammer's lobbying efforts -- not to mention her marksmanship with muzzle-loading rifles -- cover the walls of her office. Despite her past successes, however, the House panel voted 5-1 to pass the assault-weapons bill along to the full Criminal Justice Committee. But the surprising setback symbolized the NRA's shifting fortunes, not only in Florida, but across the nation. The NRA has been unreasonable with their positions for so long, it's catching up with them now, asserted Rep. Dramatic evidence of this cropped up the day before the House action, when Sen. John A. Grant Jr., a conservative Tampa Republican who heads a companion Senate committee, was being interviewed about prospects for an assault-weapons ban. When they said I was part of the Gestapo last year, that was a little out of order. Horn gave legislators a booklet picturing both the 27 guns proposed for banning and other semiautomatic rifles that were not on the list but that are popular with hunters. The move was aimed at shattering the NRA's claim that only cosmetic differences exist between assault weapons and sporting guns. Although a Handgun Control news release declared, Florida Deals NRA Fourth Loss of Year, Hammer was able to say with some justification, I think we did pretty good. The tide turned her way, she claimed, after legislators saw how student demonstrators in China were overwhelmed by troops because they were unarmed. Shortly after adjourning, the Legislature was called back into special session to reconsider a bill that would make it illegal for gun owners to carelessly leave weapons around children. Rambo Sells ON A BREEZY DAY last spring, a riot of orange- and gold-striped tulips swayed outside the gunmetal gray NRA headquarters in Washington. In his seventh-floor office, Jim Baker -- one of five in-house lobbyists supplemented by four high-powered outsiders -- had put the finishing touches on his letter to Arizona gun owners, slamming DeConcini's bill. The question is whether these proposals will fight crime effectively, and we think highly restrictive gun controls are a bankrupt concept. Warren Cassidy, the NRA's executive vice president, later acknowledged that the Goldwater comment had hurt badly. Cassidy said a number of concerned NRA members wrote him, asking, What are you going to do about this? Tom Korologos, one of the NRA's well-connected outside lobbyists, recalled another example of the difficulty of fighting off assault-weapon bans. Korologos commented: Never mind it doesn't do us any good on Capitol Hill to have those damn things loose. An NRA operative conceded that, despite a tough no-compromise resolution unanimously adopted at the national convention, the NRA might have to back a compromise bill when Congress takes final action on assault weapons. To fight assault-weapon bills, Baker said, the NRA hopes to spend $5 million, most of it derived from direct-mail appeals. The organization's revenues last year included $45.4 million from membership dues and $9.4 million from contributions. Denying this, Baker said a survey of Congress by the American Library Assn. had found that the library group and the NRA supplied the most accurate information of all lobbying organizations. They marveled at new laser targeting devices that can project a red beam hundreds of feet, from gun to bull's-eye. And then, during a break, 1,000 NRA activists filed into a cavernous hall where Merrill L. (Pete) Petoskey, a wildlife biologist from Lewiston, Mich., delivered the opening prayer at the NRA's 118th annual meeting. The news media, the grizzled hero of two wars said, have a million reasons for us not to have guns. With your help, chimed in Wayne R. LaPierre Jr., head of the NRA's lobbying, we will protect your basic God-given right to defend yourself and to own firearms in this country. At the NRA's annual banquet that night, actor Charlton Heston evoked his famous movie image of Moses on the mountaintop as he provided the group with an inspirational boost. As the main speaker, Heston noted that he keeps beside his bed a.45-caliber service revolver that he brought back from World War II. Then, accepting an ornate flintlock rifle from the NRA for his years of support, Heston hoisted it above his head as if it were a stone tablet. 