Fiorina struck down a New Mexico law requiring candidates entering a congressional primary to have belonged to their party for a year and to pay a registration fee. But state statutes that simply limit the tenure of existing congressional officeholders have not yet been tested in court. Three U.S. House members, led by Democrat Larry Smith, have filed briefs asking the court to rule state term limits unconstitutional. The court will hear arguments Friday, and may rule later this month. By 6 to 1, the California Supreme Court ruled this month that the state's new term-limit law was constitutional. But the court's decision affected only term limits on state officials; federal officeholders weren't included in California's limits. Term limitations do not restrict the right to vote for a candidate because of his or her ideology or party. Rather, they prevent citizens from voting for a particular candidate after he has served in office a set number of years. Fashing, the U.S. Supreme Court determined that a particular candidate has no fundamental right to ballot access or to run for office. Federal courts have upheld many state restrictions on who may qualify for ballot access. They have never held reasonable, non-discriminatory restrictions on who may run a violation of the right to vote. Unlike the age, residency and citizenship requirements, term limits do not prevent any non-incumbent from running for Congress. Moreover, term limits do not in any way modify the age, residency or citizenship requirements in the Constitution. Baker, that certain extraordinary defects in the national political process might render congressional regulation of state activities invalid under the Tenth Amendment. On this basis, term limits merely ensure a fair election system and the republican form of government guaranteed the states under the Constitution. Two sitting U.S. House Members won their first terms as write-in candidates. Another option would require candidates to have ballot statements appear next to their names. Each candidate would have to answer the question: Will you adhere to a -- year term limit? 