On May 6 the Queen and President Mitterrand will declare the Channel Tunnel open. At the moment, agents report more inquiries, but the markets in both countries are still quiet and prices low, especially in France. Far-sighted prospective buyers looking near Calais include hauliers wanting to set up a base on the Continent, and Asian entrepreneurs who see an advantage in being close to Belgium. The British are mainly looking for houses, rather than apartments, although French and Dutch buyers are also in the market. Inquiries about northern French property picked up just before Christmas, says Maggie Kelly, of French agents L'Abri-tanique in Hesdin. UK buyers can now sell their UK home to put money into a main residence or second home in France. Prices have stopped falling in northern France and hopes are high that the tunnel, motorways and new railways will resuscitate the region. Four or five years ago it cost FFr2.5m (after being put on the market at FFr4m). A small, partly-restored farmhouse near Montreuil can be bought for FFr135,000 from A House in France. Near St Omer agent Cote d'Opale is selling an 18th century chateau with wings added in 1908 for FFr4.46m. La Residence offers another with 28 watercress beds and 12 hectares (30 acres) in good condition for FFr2.6m and a flat in town for FFr380,000. It has good shops - including the Philippe Olivier cheese shop - and restaurants. Shops open in winter on Saturdays and Sundays -and close on Wednesdays and Thursday mornings. You can play golf and tennis, ride, go to the casino and live in an elegant domaine in the Foret. Penny Zoldan, of Latitudes, has a flat in Le Touquet and sees it as a good base for foreigners. Nearby, at Hardelot, there are plenty of building plots for sale beside the two golf courses (consult Latitudes). Towards Paris, off the autoroute from Calais, Philip Hawkes is selling the 18th century Chateau de Pronleroy for FFr13m. Egerton and Knight Frank &amp; Rutley is offering the more recent Chateau de la Chaussee, near Chantilly, the centre of French racing, at FFr19m. Cluttons' Canterbury office and Weatherall Green &amp; Smith are selling Highland Court, at Bridge, a columned stately home, for Pounds 750,000. 