But now, two new studies show they also face an unseen hazard: Their health is under siege from the poisonous stew of gases and soot in wildfire smoke. Health experts also suspect that exposure to wildfire smoke may accelerate aging, prompt fatal heart attacks or cancer and trigger respiratory diseases such as chronic bronchitis or asthma. Its four-year drought has turned grasslands tinder dry, and its stagnant weather conditions and topography can trap smoke for days. Furthermore, forestry officials predict that the region's 1990 fire season will be devastating. For nearly 10 years, urban firefighters have known that toxic smoke from burning structures and cars greatly increases their chances of cancer and heart disease. The bandannas that once were their only protection were replaced by air tanks and masks long ago. Furthermore, developing protection for the crews has gotten little attention and virtually no state or federal funding. National fire officials say they cannot get help from Congress unless they can prove firefighters are dropping dead. In all my 18 years of experience in industrial hygiene, I've never seen anything like it.. The researchers said they have not determined if the lungs heal between seasons or if the damage accumulates. The doctor told me I look like I've smoked 10 packs of cigarettes a day all my life. But I've never smoked, said Stewart, foreman of the Hotshot crew in Los Padres National Forest near Ojai. Health researchers, usually reluctant to interfere in policy decisions, said they feel strongly enough about the hazard that they are urging fire officials to provide respiratory protection as soon as possible. Developing technology, however, takes money, and none has been allocated by California forestry officials. This year, about $10 million, less than 1% of the federal dollars spent on fighting wildland fires, is set aside for research. Sommers said no other federal agency devotes that little, especially when jobs are life-threatening. Other hazard-prone occupational groups, such as chemical workers and construction crews, are much better protected, he said. Most employers are required by federal regulations to provide equipment that protects workers from dangerous fumes or other threats. Firefighters themselves -- who traditionally have brandished the attitude that if you can't stand the heat, you get out of the fire -- are now demanding protection. In what was called the Siege of '87, 1,500 fires attacked the Klamath National Forest near the California-Oregon border in one month. A strong inversion layer settled into the valley, trapping the thick smoke for the entire time. The firefighters' union, concerned that crews were falling ill in record numbers, asked Johns Hopkins University to send a doctor. Candace Gregory, 33, the first woman battalion chief at the California Department of Forestry, recalls that 11 members on her crew of 15 fell ill. Immediately after the 1987 fires, Ford and other researchers from Johns Hopkins and the California health department mounted studies. Looking back, he says, When the adrenaline's pumping and you're saving property and lives and important natural resources, it seems worth it. YOSEMITE FIRES: While the flames slowed, concern remained high over possible new lightning storms. A3 HOW POISONS IN SMOKE AFFECT FIREFIGHTERS Wild-land firefighters are exposed to a variety of poisonous substances in the smoke they breathe. When forest material or brush catches fire, the incomplete combustion turns the harmless vegetation into a barrage of dangerous chemicals. 2. Inorganic Compounds -- Including lead and sulphur, these materials vary widely in smoke, depending on the content of the soil. 3. Aldehydes -- These strong irritants, especially acrolein and formaldehyde, are found in high concentrations in smoke. 4. Particulates -- These small pieces of black carbon lodge deep in the lungs, possibly causing asthma, chronic bronchitis and cancer. 5. Ozone -- This potent chemical is formed during fires when there is strong sunlight and smoke is trapped by stagnant weather patterns. Human tests show ozone, which is also the main ingredient of smog, hampers lung function, while animal tests indicate it can cause chronic respiratory disease. 6. Organic Acids -- Including formic acid and acetic acid, these chemicals are powerful irritants to the lungs, eyes and throat. The Protection: Bandanna: Wild-land firefighters wear nothing but a thin cloth on their face to protect their lungs from smoke. Air Purifier: Fire crews at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory wear 1-pound air purifiers. The smoky air passes through filters that eliminate tiny soot particles that can lodge in lungs. Polynuclear Aromatic Hydrocarbons: These Compounds, believed to be cancer-causing agents, attach to particles of soot in wild-land fires. Sources: USDA Forest Service Intermountain Research Station, California Department of Health Services and Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory 