John Hatch says he hit upon his Third World "poverty vaccination" while panic-stricken on a flight to Bolivia. He had decided he could not comply with requirements of a consulting job he had accepted from the Agency for International Development, and he was scrambling to come up with a suitable substitute. "I had my calculator out and I was sketching this thing and I was doing numbers, and I arrived in La Paz with a full-blown concept." What Hatch envisioned on that plane five years ago has translated into 400 village banks in nine countries with more than 35,000 members. Village banks are operating in Mexico, Haiti, Thailand, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Bolivia, Peru and El Salvador. He says its impetus was, and remains, the thousands of children worldwide who die daily because of starvation, what he calls the sacrifice of "probably our most precious resource." There is "almost a 100 percent guarantee" that increased income for women will go into improvements in their children's welfare, Hatch says. Lawrence Yanovitch, small enterprise development program coordinator for Catholic Relief Services in Baltimore, Md., says, "John Hatch is close to the voice of the poor. Catholic Relief Services entered a five-year, $1 million joint venture a year ago with the U.S. Agency for International Development and the foundation to create 40 village banks in Thailand. They targeted microenterprise development through small entrepreneurs, vendors, village market women, who in some developing countries comprise up to 50 percent of the employment. The women, when asked, speak of the greatest benefit in terms of what Hatch calls "empowerment perceptions." "They say things like, 'Now I'm somebody,' or 'My husband respects me more."' At the meeting, the women circle illustrated examples of quick-turnover work they want the loans to finance. It might be selling produce, groceries, baked goods, raising chickens, sewing or craftwork. But at the same time, each woman has been depositing weekly savings of at least 20 percent of the original loan. The savings serve as incentive for subsequent loans by increasing the credit line each time, Hatch said. 