WASHINGTON -- By choosing Clarence Thomas, a conservative black federal judge, for the Supreme Court, President Bush may have defused a fierce political battle over the high court's shift to the right. Moreover, Democrats specifically urged the president to consider appointing a minority-group member to fill the vacancy that was created when Thurgood Marshall announced his retirement last Thursday. John Danforth of Missouri, for whom he worked after his graduation from Yale Law School in 1974, will also weigh in his favor. Mr. Danforth's support will help reassure many moderate Senate Democrats and Republicans, much as New Hampshire GOP Sen. Warren Rudman's sponsorship of David Souter did after President Bush nominated him last July. I don't know where Judge Thomas stands on a woman's right to choose, but I intend to find out, said Democratic Sen. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio, who was the lone opponent last year in the Senate Judiciary Committee's 12-to-1 approval of his appeals court nomination. With Justice Marshall's retirement, civil rights advocates worried that there would no longer be anyone on the court who had experienced racial segregation. His father left when he was young, and his mother sent him to live with his grandparents. Indeed, my most vivid childhood memory of the Supreme Court was the 'Impeach Earl Warren' signs which lined Highway 17 near Savannah. I didn't quite understand who this Earl Warren fellow was, but I knew he was in some kind of trouble. After two years in the Monsanto Co. legal department, Judge Thomas rejoined Mr. Danforth, by then a U.S. senator. He then served for a year as chief of the U.S. Education Department's civil rights office before President Reagan appointed him chairman of the EEOC in 1982. He changed the agency's approach to de-emphasize settling large numbers of cases quickly, concentrating instead on instances in which specific victims of discrimination could be identified. In age discrimination, particularly, that created case backlogs that distressed advocates for senior citizens. Liberals charged that, across-the-board, the EEOC under Mr. Thomas's leadership didn't aggressively attack civil rights violations. Rather, he seized every opportunity -- including writing letters to editors, op-ed page articles and book reviews -- to attack affirmative action as patronizing and as an ineffective remedy for discrimination. I emphasize black self-help, as opposed to racial quotas and other race-conscious legal devices that only further and deepen the original problem. One highly controversial case on which Judge Thomas sat earlier this year has yet to be decided. The questions are: Will Judge Thomas use the case to once again attack affirmative action, and will that pour fuel on his confirmation fight? A sometime jogger and weightlifter, he enjoys reading and listening to music ranging from classical to his favorite, country singer George Jones. Some friends have expressed concern that the bitterness of the divorce from his first wife could spill over into his confirmation hearings. In his press conference, Mr. Bush strongly denied the very thought of that, insisting that race wasn't a factor in the selection of Judge Thomas. If they go smoothly, Justice Thomas could be sworn in before the new Supreme Court term begins on Oct. 