Similarly, while cautioning about the uncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that the operation has been very successful. Amid reports that thousands of Iraqi soldiers had surrendered, administration aides were also upbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within a week. But even continued military success carries political and diplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. But it has offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, not just the liberation of Kuwait. Why have a war? asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customs officer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack on Iraqi troops. American officials staunchly disavow any interest in driving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit of Saddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlled government inside Iraq. Gen. Walter Boomer, the top Marine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goal is to restore {Kuwait} to its citizens. Gen. Schwarzkopf said that some early reports that chemical weapons were used against allied troops turned out to be bogus. Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troops haven't yet fully engaged Iraq's vaunted Republican Guard, which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait border and is considered the most potent element in the Iraqi defense. Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a ground campaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bush administration will face fresh problems growing out of the military situation. There are likely to be additional American prisoners of war taken, and there are signs that President Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. President Bush's political argument for going to a ground war has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports of wanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush's deputy national security adviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Network that Iraqi troops have set fire to large sections of Kuwait City. The decision was made after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with military commanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S. officials now say, was that they all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq. In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr. Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he began after the invasion last August. Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S. ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin as previously planned Saturday night. The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punched through tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward into Iraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breached troublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagon officials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait's beaches had begun. The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly, leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects that tens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to the U.S. and its allies over the next few days. Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and an international arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraq pays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or its armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power. I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matter what happens, says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholar who has written extensively about Iraq. Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqi leader's internal power base appeared to be narrowing even before the war began. 