In Canada's Northwest Territories, the discovery of 81 small diamonds, some of gem quality, has sparked the biggest rush to stake mining claims in the history of the North American industry. Stakers are using helicopters because each claim area is so large and prospectors have claimed every piece of land within 300 km (185 miles) of the discovery. In spite of all this hectic activity, it is very unlikely that anyone will find enough big diamonds to make the development of Canada's first diamond mine worthwhile. More than Dollars 1m-worth of gem diamonds a day are being smuggled out of that country for sale in Antwerp. An estimated 50,000 private-enterprise diggers are at work already and their numbers are being swelled by 500 a day. As well as experienced miners, many soldiers who could not find civilian jobs have made their way to the diamond areas. Even though there are so many diggers at work, questions are being asked about whether there might be more to this 'explosion.' Did Unita, Angola's rebel movement, build up a stockpile which is now being released? They are composed of very hard carbon so they can be useful for drilling holes in tough material, but there are substitutes for this use. The cartel is organised by De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organisation, which markets about 80 per cent of the world's rough diamonds. Apart from De Beers' own production from Namibia and South Africa, the CSO handles rough gem diamonds from Angola, Australia, Botswana, Russia, Tanzania and Zaire. De Beers says that, because times are tough. it will probably have to cut its annual dividend payment for the first time since 1981. It has also told the producers to cut deliveries by 25 per cent - something the CSO contracts permit at times of stress. Diamond prices cannot be fixed artificially but have to be set at a level which allows production and consumption to be equated. Hundreds of diamond investment trusts and traders were bankrupted at that time and Australia and Zaire challenged De Beers' near-monopoly. Diamond sales in value terms jumped by 20 per cent in 1987 and another 37 per cent the following year. To cool the market, the CSO imposed swingeing price increases: 13.5 per cent in May 1988 and 15.5 per cent in March 1989. It must be open to question whether another Japan can be found to lift the diamond market as the present recession ends. But in the meantime Mr Julian Ogilvie Thompson, De Beers' chairman, insists that the CSO's control of the diamond market is not slipping. 