Within minutes, however, their words had turned into violence, and the two men toppled to the terminal floor where Searle handcuffed his suspect and pulled him to his feet. Placing his hand across the man's mouth, the officer then marched him away before a gathering crowd of gaping passersby. The Morgan case also reflects a growing criticism of police use of the drug courier profile to stem the flow of drugs through airports. Such suspicious behavior include erratic movements, paying for tickets with cash, using an alias, boarding a long flight without luggage and staying briefly in distant cities known to be sources of narcotics. Last year, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that government agents may stop and question airline passengers who look and act like drug couriers. Profiles are important and we use them, but exactly how we use them or what the profile is I cannot tell you, said Los Angeles Police Department Cmdr. He said that last year, 254 narcotics arrests were made at Los Angeles International Airport. Frank Schults, chief of public affairs for the DEA in Washington, denied that his agency uses drug courier profiles. We have any number of investigative techniques and ways to identify people involved in moving drugs, but a profile is not one of them, he said. Neither Booth nor Schults would comment on the Morgan lawsuit, which is scheduled to go to trial for a second time next month in Los Angeles. But two months later, U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer set aside the verdict after ruling that she had failed to instruct jurors that Morgan had been illegally detained by police. There isn't any possible other conclusion but that the stop was illegal, the judge concluded. Both Searle, a 20-year Police Department veteran, and William Woessner, a DEA agent who was subsequently dropped from the lawsuit, have denied that they did anything wrong. Minutes later, Morgan said, Searle grabbed him by the neck and they fell to the floor. Instead, Morgan filed his complaint, in part, to discourage similar incidents from occurring, his attorneys said. This happened to Joe Morgan, but it really is applicable to any black person who uses Los Angeles airport, said Oakland attorney Edwin Wilson Jr., who also is black. If it wasn't Joe, this could have happened to me or my father or to any other black person. Searle, 42, denied the allegations but told The Times he could not discuss specifics of the case. In his suit, Morgan denies that and contends that he suffered acute physical and emotional distress and embarrassment after the incident and expressed concern about damage to his reputation. 