Late last night it was reported that Iraq's U.N. mission had sent a letter to the U.N. accepting all the Security Council resolutions on the Gulf war. U.S. policy makers are talking tentatively of securing Kuwait with demilitarized zones and an Islamic peacekeeping force drawn largely from Persian Gulf states and Egypt. Before last night's cease-fire -- effective at midnight EST -- allied forces yesterday were still concluding what Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf called a classic tank battle against the two remaining divisions of Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard. That battle raged just inside Iraq to the north of Kuwait, where a broad sweeping maneuver by U.S., French and British forces trapped the premier Iraqi force. The Bush administration quickly batted down that overture, as it had every other recent Iraqi peace bid. The statement was unacceptable, officials said, because Iraq also insisted that the U.N. simultaneously drop the three resolutions that imposed trade and economic sanctions. U.S. commanders yesterday conceded that Iraq went into the war with far more mobile Scud launchers than U.S. intelligence had estimated. Mr. Bush last night emphasized that the temporary cease-fire would be off the minute that Iraq fired any Scud missiles. To insulate Kuwait from follow-on attacks, they are discussing what one aide calls reciprocal demilitarized zones along the Iraq-Kuwait border. Under those arrangements, Kuwait and Iraq would agree on precisely what kind and how much military equipment and troops would be allowed in specified border areas. Its core would come from Council states and Egypt, though other Islamic nations such as Morocco and Pakistan might be represented. In that way, U.S. troops could withdraw quickly from the slice of southern Iraq that they have swept through in their attacks on the Republican Guard. American officials insist they haven't any interest in occupying pieces of Iraq or trying to set up a different government there. Removal of foreign forces would help prevent another nightmare turn of events or the internal disintegration of Iraq. We've been saying these are Arab matters for a specific reason, says one Bush administration official. Though some Egyptian students have violently protested Egypt's participation, the dissent has been less than feared. President Hafez Assad's power clearly is enhanced by the defeat of his archrival next door, Saddam Hussein, and his new chumminess with Washington. But Mr. Assad also bucked overwhelming public opinion at home by joining a U.S.-led military coalition. In private discussions with the U.S., Syria acknowledged that it faced serious internal unhappiness over sending Syrian forces along on the ground attack in Kuwait. That sentiment could vent itself through Islamic fundamentalism, a potential problem for Egypt and Saudi Arabia as well as for Syria. The air campaign against Iraq, while swift and decisive, was more brutal than many in the region had anticipated. For starters, there's likely to be new resistance in Israel, where some are already asking what this war would have been like with a pro-Iraqi Palestinian state next door. And Yasser Arafat's pro-Iraq stand has cost him whatever support he had in the Bush administration and Gulf states. Similarly, Jordan's open sympathy for Iraq has deeply strained relations with the U.S., creating another impediment to solving the Palestinian problem. Jordan has long been considered the Arab state most likely to help identify and shepherd moderate Palestinians into a peace with Israel. In addition, some Middle East specialists think radical fundamentalists within Iran will begin trying to undermine Iraq's government by extending their influence over Shiite areas in southern Iraq. If Saddam Hussein is weak enough, you'll see that kind of thing going on again, predicts Kenneth Katzman, a former U.S. intelligence analyst who now is a defense consultant. Mr. Katzman believes that Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who is considered a pragmatist, wouldn't favor such actions. Shaul Bakhash, a George Mason University scholar, says Iran worries that the U.S. and Saudi Arabia will dominate postwar regional politics. Tehran could use its control over the warplanes both to secure its place at any regional security meeting and to press old demands against Iraq. 