In a blow to California and other states with large immigrant populations, the Senate voted Friday to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens in the 1990 population count. Pulido and other Santa Ana council members say that the 1980 census substantially under-counted its population at 215,000. Just before the voice vote, the senators voted, 50 to 41, against killing the proposal to bar aliens from the count. Would Urge Veto Even if the prohibition survives, Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher has said that he would ask President Bush to veto any bill that comes to his desk with such a provision. At stake are the number of seats in Congress for California, Florida, New York, Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states that will be reapportioned on the basis of next year's census. State officials have said California could lose up to $300 million in federal aid if illegal aliens were uncounted. In addition, Pulido and county advocates for poor Latino residents expressed concern that the decision would promote fear and intimidation in the community. For example, we have close to 50,000 people in the city that have qualified through the amnesty process for legal residency, Pulido said. The issue cuts across partisan lines in the Senate, with Minority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kan.) arguing against the White House position on grounds that including illegal aliens in the census is unfair to American citizens. Loss of Seats Cited Some states will lose congressional seats because of illegal aliens, Dole argued. Pete Wilson (R-Calif.) countered that excluding illegal residents from the decennial census is unfair to the states that have suffered from a huge influx of immigration beyond the legal limits. In addition to just counting heads, they're getting economic information of the city that will affect us in the future, he added. Gloria McDonough, director of Abrazar Center, an elderly-assistance center for Latinos in Westminster, said the senators' action shows they have no understanding of the impact of illegal immigration to California communities. Whether you count them or not, the undocumented residents are still going to impact federal dollars in our community. Their big thing was, 'We do not care about the origins of where these people are from, but, more importantly, their impact to local economies,' she said. But we have a mandate to follow that law, and we would have to find out, he said. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.), the federal government has counted all inhabitants without regard to citizenship in accordance with the Constitution's provisions. Mario Moreno, head of the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, said he was shocked by the Senate's decision. 