He blamed the discrepancies on a faulty memory, saying he wrote the report more than three hours after the altercation occurred. Dickey, who was testifying under subpoena, admitted under questioning that the black man, Don Jackson, never used profanity during the arrest as Dickey had indicated in his report. Daniel Boatwright (D-Concord), chairman of the Senate Select Committee on State Procurement and Expenditure Practices, called the hearing into the incident to review allegations of police misconduct in Long Beach. The legislative committee monitors state funds disbursed to police departments by the state Police Officer Standards and Training Commission. Investigations have been launched by the FBI, the Los Angeles County district attorney's office and the Long Beach Police Department. At the hearing, Boatwright repeatedly played the videotape while committee members and about 50 observers watched on television monitors and Dickey and Jackson commented on each scene. At one point, Boatwright asked Dickey: You became the judge, jury and executioner as to whether he was challenged to a fight? Dickey's attorney, Michael Hannon, refused to allow Dickey to answer any more questions after nearly three hours of questioning because of what he called the hostile and badgering nature of the inquiry. This little kangaroo court gives these politicians a chance to run for office. Any resemblance between this and a fair hearing is just imaginary, Hannon told reporters afterward. They are taking stuff out of context and just badgering him with it. Also, Jackson alleged, officers refused three requests to loosen his handcuffs as he was taken to the police station. Dickey's eight-page police report, which was provided to reporters, states that Jackson was arrested for saying offensive words, an allegation that was later dropped. No Taunts Heard The report states that Jackson challenged the officer to fight, although Jackson never is heard taunting the officer on the tape. At another point, Boatwright assumed the role of Dickey and had Dickey play Jackson in trying to demonstrate the type of hold Dickey used on Jackson during the arrest. 