LIMA -- On June 4, I was among a group of journalists who were told that the war against the Shining Path ( Sendero Luminoso ) guerrillas had almost been won. We had been allowed into a safe house that, according to Interior Minister Agustin Mantilla, had been used as headquarters by the leaders of the Marxist guerrilla movement. This was the underground organization's central nervous system, commented investigative Police Chief Fernando Reyes Roca, a short man who is a consummate bureaucratic survivor. Interior Ministry spokesman Fernando Yavera joked that this find was going to put Shining Path watchers (such as myself) out of business. Alas, as it turned out this was not the rebel organization's headquarters, nor its central nervous system, but more of an archive and memorabilia repository. Among Shining Path watchers ( Senderlogos ) there is strong disagreement on fundamentals: Is the Shining Path getting stronger or weaker? Its first actions were cautious, modest and often ludicrous in a crazy way (like hanging dogs from lampposts, with scribbled insults over them to Chinese Communist martyrs). In October 1981, emergency laws were imposed for the first time on part of Peru; they covered only 2% of the population. Damages are estimated at $16 billion, or about 85% of Peru's annual gross national product. But dialogue was disdainfully rejected: Dozens of these professionals were assassinated, and the armed forces slowed down their actions, while the rebels made largely unimpeded progress. And for the first time, death squads -- linked by some analysts to Mr. Garcia's APRA Party -- began to contribute to the killing. In 1988, 1,986 people were killed as a result of insurgent or counterinsurgent actions; in 1989, 3,198 were killed; and 1,730 during the first six months of 1990. He also feels that the Shining Path is weakened, and that an important Shining Path faction would be willing to engage in peace talks. Actually, Mr. Fujimori might end up implementing internal war policies that would be quite different from those advocated during his campaign. Free-market economist Hernando de Soto, who has been advising Mr. Fujimori during the past month, thinks that might be the case. Running against all major trends of contemporary history, the insurgents have followed Shining Path founder Abimael Guzman with the commitment that the faithful reserve for their prophet. A whole closed, inbred culture, developed in the underground and unnoticed by most Peruvians -- except when it explodes in their faces. --- Mr. Gorriti is a Peruvian author and journalist. 