George Deukmejian's top campaign fund-raiser, Los Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian, defend his actions as one of Keating's attorneys, hired to represent the Arizona businessman's interests before state regulators. Samuelian said he recommended the appointment of two successive state corporations commissioners -- both of whom subsequently approved the sales of high-risk junk bonds by Lincoln's parent corporation. Samuelian, Deukmejian's campaign finance chairman since 1982, also said that he represented Keating at several meetings with state regulators. After the hearing, Samuelian told reporters that he helped set up meetings between Keating and the regulators' boss, Business, Transportation and Housing Secretary John K. Geoghegan. But it was Crawford's blunt remarks about Keating's tactics and demeanor that provided the most provocative testimony Wednesday before the Assembly's Finance and Insurance Committee. He was a dominant person who believed that he was above the law and regulations, that he was powerful and he had the juice and he could win. When Keating first took over Lincoln in February, 1984, he told state regulators one thing but all along planned to do another, Crawford said. Instead, Crawford said, Keating used Lincoln's citizen deposits and sales of high-risk bonds as sources of cash for marginal land acquisitions in Arizona, Colorado, Texas and Louisiana. That was 54 places to hide the smoking gun, said Crawford, who added: We were never on top of the problems of Lincoln Savings.... They could write up (the value of) their assets faster than you could write them down. He said the task was made even more difficult by the phalanx of Keating employees and attorneys, who overwhelmed understaffed regulators. The committee's chairman, Assemblyman Patrick Johnston (D-Stockton), expressed concern about allegations that Keating and his associates used political connections to influence state regulators. Both Tom and Bender approved the sale of controversial high-risk bonds issued by American Continental and sold through Lincoln's branches. After Tom left his post as commissioner, he rejoined Samuelian's law firm and represented Keating's position in meetings with Bender, his successor and former deputy. In Washington, meanwhile, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush had no immediate plans to oust M. Wall, who previously headed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is under fire for not acting on a recommendation by regional regulators to seize Lincoln in 1987. The government did not take control of the thrift until last April, and critics contend that the delay greatly increased the eventual cost to taxpayers. On Wednesday, three nonprofit organizations -- the National Taxpayers Union, Public Citizen and Citizens Against Government -- sent a letter to Bush urging him to oust Wall. 