One close Milken adviser said: No one could have imagined this in their wildest nightmare. Defense lawyer Arthur L. Liman left the courthouse without commenting and did not return phone calls later. Milken's sentence also included three years' probation during which he must perform full-time community service. During his own lawyer's presentation before sentence was imposed, Milken at times was in tears in the courtroom. He then stood and, choking back sobs, said: What I did violated not just the law but all of my own principles and values. Wood also sentenced him to three years of community service while on probation after his prison sentence. Because of his huge earnings at Drexel, however, his wealth is expected to be at least hundreds of millions of dollars. Among them, she said, were several acts of obstruction of justice relating to orders or suggestions to employees to destroy documents. Although Milken technically could be paroled almost immediately, government lawyers said the commission normally requires prisoners to serve close to two-thirds of their sentence. Stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky, implicated in insider trading on an even grander scale, got only three years. Investment banker Martin A. Siegel, who directly stole information from his own corporate clients and also received suitcases stuffed with cash from Boesky, was let off with only two months. But in those cases, the defendants had fully cooperated with the government before their sentencing, turning in prominent former business associates. Under the highly unusual terms of his plea agreement, he is obliged to begin cooperating only now that the sentence has been imposed. John C. Coffee, a Columbia University law professor, said the judge may also have imposed the severe sentence because Milken occupied a position of trust at the center of the financial world. There's a long tradition here of viewing very seriously abuses by people with high responsibilities, and this man was at the crossroads of capitalism, Coffee said. The sentencing capped the most massive securities fraud investigation ever carried out by the government. Milken, who joined Drexel while still in business school in 1969, plucked junk bonds from obscurity and almost single-handedly built what at its peak became a $200-billion market. From Drexel's junk bond headquarters in Beverly Hills, Milken orchestrated transactions that made possible huge leveraged buyouts of such companies as Storer Communications and Beatrice Cos. During the sentencing, Wood disclosed for the first time her findings on the unusual pre-sentencing hearings she presided over in October. The so-called Fatico hearings were held to determine if there were evidence of additional crimes beyond the six to which he pleaded guilty. Under federal court rulings, Wood is allowed to consider evidence of other crimes in deciding on a sentence. In a lengthy written opinion released Wednesday, Wood found that Assistant U.S. Attorneys John Carroll and Jess Fardella had failed to prove some of their main claims. She said there was insufficient evidence to prove that Milken was behind a manipulation of WickesCos. stock in 1986. She said that an equally likely explanation was that Milken was simply afraid to do anything too blatant. Wood's sentence was viewed as a rebuff to many prominent Southern Californians who had written to her urging that Milken's sentence be limited to community service. Such camps, where Boesky and others caught up in the Wall Street scandals served their sentences, have open rooms instead of cells and offer extensive recreation facilities. FALL OF THE JUNK BOND KING Here is a chronology of key developments in the prosecution of former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. high-yield bond chief Michael Milken: Nov. 14, 1986: Stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky agrees topays $100 million to settle charges of insider trading, cooperate with investigators and plead guilty to a single criminal count. 7, 1988: The Securities and Exchange Commission accuses Drexel, Milken and three others of violating a range of securities laws, most in connection with Boesky. 21, 1988: Drexel agrees to plead guilty to six felony counts and pay $650 million in fines and restitution to settle the biggest securities fraud probe in history. March 29, 1989: A federal grand jury indicts Milken, his brother, Lowell, and former Drexel trader Bruce Newberg on 98 counts of racketeering and fraud, based on information fromBoesky. June 15, 1989: Milken resigns after 19 years at Drexel to form his own consulting firm. 13, 1990: Drexel's parent company, Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, files for bankruptcy court protection after defaulting on debts and begins laying off employees. March 19, 1990: Prosecutors promise to bring a new indictment with broader charges against Milken by the week of April 16. April 24, 1990: Milken tearfully pleads guilty to six felonies, agrees to pay $600 million in restitution and fines, and agrees to cooperate with the government after sentencing. 