If Robert Bork's Supreme Court confirmation hearings this week can be said to have had a moment of epiphany, it came Wednesday morning. Alan Simpson how Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, the famous civil libertarian, had once upheld a law that allowed the sterilization of the mentally retarded. Three generations of imbeciles are enough, Holmes had written, in what Judge Bork described, in charitable understatement, as not (Holmes's) finest hour. Simpson then paused for a moment, looked around at his colleagues, and quipped, Perhaps we ought to bring him back up here, and the hearing room broke up in laughter. Judge Bork defended himself well this week, with scholarly precision and often with humor, but in Washington reasonableness alone is not enough to win a seat on the Court. By now, the politics of judicial appointment in the Reagan years has become drearily predictable, like a Herblock cartoon. Any nominee at all at odds with the judicial orthodoxy of recent decades is immediately attacked as someone out of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The same ads implied that Judge Bork had no objection to sterilizing workers, didn't believe in any right to privacy, and just might Turn the clock back on civil rights? The question mark was a nice touch, apparently meant to suggest the ad writers might actually have some doubt. Once the hearings began, the directors of these lobbying groups huddled amid the marble colonnades in the back of the Senate Caucus Room, smiling or wincing as events played out. Ralph Neas, the amiable leader of the activist troops and the subject of a flattering profile in Tuesday's Washington Post, was always ready with a quote. The senators themselves were more respectful, perhaps because they know that TV cameras have been unkind lately to inquisitors. Judiciary Chairman Joe Biden appeared to have taken a course from Miss Manners; he displayed none of the florid sarcasm that drove Ursula Meese to tears when her husband was seeking to be confirmed as attorney general. The questioning, however, left little doubt about its goal -- to suggest that Judge Bork cares not at all for the rights of women, of minorities, of the press, or of pretty much anyone else. 