Her movies now are few and far between, but when she is ill, the world still stands at attention. Liz Taylor's latest bout with pneumonia has drawn the kind of intense scrutiny normally accorded presidential polyps. And today, yet again, everyone is talking about La Liz. But then Liz Taylor, 58, has always lived a life of extremes. And when Taylor's publicists first issued flat denials, the press went on to speculate about the speculation. Did the AIDS rumors start because of Taylor's ballyhooed friendship with publishing titan Malcolm Forbes, whose recent death touched off reports about his alleged homosexuality? Levine declined comment on a rumor circulating among reporters that the tabloid had paid $50,000 for the pictures. Some press coverage has bent over backwards to tug at the bounds of credibility; the National Enquirer has Liz communing with the ghosts of Forbes and one-time husband Richard Burton. In all, Liz's current illness has drawn the most attention yet, according to her publicist, Chen Sam. More than 100 reporters, photographers and cameramen converged on St. John's, many of whom had flown in from around the country for the 15-minute press conference. I heard some guys talking behind me, saying, 'I can't believe they're hounding her like this.' I felt like saying, 'Are you offended reading about her?' sniffed Val Richardson, a reporter from the Washington Times who'd flown in that morning. She had apparently rebounded from a bad weekend, when doctors feared she might die. Although Taylor's physicians are still trying to identify the virus, they are treating her for pneumonia with antibiotics. Meanwhile, her own security guards keep watch over her private room in intensive care. Her eyes were clear and she definitely understood what I said and motioned, made me know she understood. She just has an enormous reservoir of inner strength that she calls on when she has to. The cancellations prompted the play's co-producer, Zev Bufman, to declare, Bronchitis has plagued Elizabeth all her life. For somebody like me who is obsessive, it's amazing I was never a gambler, she said at the time. Then I slapped myself and went from 118 to 122, which is the right weight for me. But her battles against addiction have played havoc with her fight against the bulge. And her persistent back problems have nurtured her dependence on pills. When Taylor first checked in, in 1983, she admitted to 35 years of addiction to pain killers and sleeping pills. And the late '80s had found Liz, hobbled by back pain, returning to those two sources of comfort. She never budged from her room at Betty Ford without her trademark darkened eyebrows. 