Out of the horn of Africa has emerged the most devastating and dominant group of marathon runners the world has seen. Kristiansen, the women's marathon world record-holder, started fast but slowed markedly on a hot day. Still, Kristiansen finished 26th overall, believed to be the highest finish for a woman in this race. In two days, Ethiopian runners have won three major marathons. Dinsamo holds the world record of 2:06:50, set last year on the same course. Keleke Metaferia won in 2:10:28, and Dereje Nedi was second in 2:10:36. Two other Ethiopians were in Monday's Boston race, placing ninth and 18th. And still another, Wodajo Bulti, who has run 2:08:44, is one of the favorites in the London Marathon next Sunday. Because of internal disturbances, however, little of that aid ever reached the needy. Politically pro-Soviet, Ethiopia's Marxist government ordered boycotts of the Olympic Games in 1976, 1984 and 1988. Had they not boycotted, at least three Ethiopian runners would have been among the favorites in the men's marathon at Seoul. Despite its erratic participation, however, Ethiopia has a proud Olympic heritage, dating to 1956. One of the marathon's most enduring figures was Bikila, who won the marathon gold medal in 1960 and 1964. He was among the pack of four African runners that led the 6,418 entrants race for 15 miles. And they ran not as strangers, because Mekonnen had beaten Ikangaa in winning last year's Tokyo Marathon. I knew that I should stay with him until the last (two miles). John Treacy of Ireland, who was third behind Ikangaa here last year, was third again in 2:10:24. I knew that they had gone out very hard, Treacy said of the blistering early pace. The pace got the best of Saimon Robert Haali of Tanzania, who led the race for five miles. For the first few miles, before the heat, Kristiansen was running at a 2:17 pace. By the 17th mile, she had added more than 20 seconds to her mile splits. By her own reckoning, it was at almost 16 miles that Kristiansen felt the heat. I felt real easy the first 11 miles, I felt I was right in the groove. At about 11 miles, it went very quickly. Lisa Weidenbach went flying by me at that point. It had been at least eight years since Samuelson was beaten in the marathon by an American. It's always difficult to be beaten by Americans when you are the American champion, Kristiansen said. The easiest way to be beaten is to drop out of a race. In the postrace news conference, the private Samuelson was as emotional as she has ever been in public. (But) I have been spending as much time in physical therapy as I have in training and I can't continue that. THEY'VE GOT A LOCK ON THE MARATHON How Ethiopia's marathoners have fared the last two days: 