Mr. Fitzwater said that President Bush, in a lengthy telephone conversation, told Mr. Gorbachev he has serious concerns about the plan. In fact, some military officials said allied bombing likely would intensify while diplomatic maneuvering continues so that more Iraqi targets can be destroyed before a possible cease-fire begins. Lee Hamilton, for one, last night said that while the proposal has deficiencies it goes far enough that the U.S. should postpone a ground war for now while continuing military pressure in other ways. Most important, last night's plan was the first Iraqi withdrawal offer that wasn't encumbered by any linkage to other Middle East problems, notably the Palestinian issue. That has been the main sticking point that has brought prompt Bush administration objections to past formulas from Baghdad and Moscow. And many leaders of Arab coalition partners -- Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Syria -- privately have been hoping the U.S. will proceed with the crushing ground assault on Iraqi troops that seemed imminent before the Iraqi announcement. Having enraged Saddam Hussein, leaders of those Arab states aren't eager to live with him. Yet some allied Arab officials also worry about the sight of their American friends gunning down hundreds or thousands of Arab soldiers from Iraq; this may leave them as torn now as Mr. Bush. Above all, the U.S. will be unhappy that the plan would remove economic sanctions after only two-thirds of Iraqi forces are withdrawn. In addition, it doesn't set a specific, speedy timetable for a withdrawal, and it would cancel all U.N. resolutions that provide for postwar punishment. The Soviets said more details will be announced today, which carries potential promise and peril for the plan's success. So President Bush seems certain to press for changes in the Soviet-Iraqi formula that would allow the United Nations Security Council to leave economic sanctions in place. He then proceeded to outline a plan he said Iraq had accepted under which Iraq would stage a full and unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait. The eight points contained some elements that Mr. Bush had privately told Moscow just this week that he needed in any deal, including freeing of war prisoners and a timetable for withdrawal. If Iraq really is prepared to withdraw from Kuwait, which it proudly proclaimed for six months as its permanent 19th province, Mr. Bush could frame that alone as a significant diplomatic and political victory. It would look particularly stunning because it would have been achieved with a surprisingly low level of U.S. casualties -- 20 U.S. soldiers killed in combat and 23 American planes lost in fighting to date. U.S. officials have speculated all along that Saddam Hussein might choose survival over continued occupation of Kuwait when he thought his options were that stark. Iraq's acceptance of the agreement suggests that, after 35 days of ferocious bombing by U.S. and allied warplanes, the Iraqi leader now may see that his position has become too precarious. But for precisely that same reason, some U.S. officials have grown increasingly eager to press on with the war to finish off Iraq's military machine while the chance is available. What's more, officials suggest that they have hoped not only to drive his forces out of Kuwait but also to deliver a death blow along the way to the elite Republican Guard that have been instrumental in keeping Saddam Hussein in power. They want to destroy the Republican Guard, said one person familiar with the thinking of the U.S. military command in Saudi Arabia. Syrian President Hafez Assad will be equally chagrined if Saddam Hussein, also a neighbor of Syria, is still around to make trouble. But in Egypt, more than in Saudi Arabia, there was growing popular sentiment not to participate in a ground war in which Iraqi soldiers might be slaughtered. Still, no matter how the diplomatic maneuvering turns out, Israel already has seen the Iraqi chemical, biological and nuclear weapons capabilities it most feared wiped out by allied bombing raids. For the U.S., one of the public complaints is likely to involve the failure of the plan to comply with all 12 U.N. resolutions passed to compel Iraq to leave Kuwait. Increasingly Mr. Gorbachev's Kremlin, which is influenced more and more by oldline military officers and party hardliners, has seemed to want to preserve its old ally, Saddam Hussein, to ensure Soviet influence in the Middle East. 