America's 1988 drought captured attention everywhere, but especially in Washington where politicians pushed through the largest disaster relief measure in U.S. history. None of those conditions should have been ruled eligible, administrators in Washington say. Nothing in federal procedures, however, requires paperwork to be forwarded to higher officials for routine approval or checking. Loose regulations and lax enforcement of them were the major reasons for the government generosity, the AP found by examining federal records in 14 states through the Freedom of Information Act. Although some producers appeared to have violated eligibility requirements _ exceeding the allowed gross annual income, for example _ their requests for aid were approved anyway by local officials. As tough as farming is, they'd be fools not to take what was offered, they said. Government officials say they did the best they could with a rushed program. "Some farmers just got grandfathered in, that's true," said Dan Shaw, deputy administrator of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, which administers payment programs for the Agriculture Department. Whenever you do this for the whole nation, there are some people that luck out." The AP found some farmers who did better than just luck out. Those growers profited by "triple-dipping": reaping crop insurance as well as drought aid on damaged crops, then replanting the same ground for a successful harvest _ all perfectly legal under the 1988 program. Santa Fe Pacific Co., the railroad giant with annual revenue of $3 billion, received a check through its energy division. Wrong, say Washington officials _ the ceiling applies to revenue from all operations. Without that money, "it would have meant substantially more losses to Main Street," Cochran said. Farm Entitlement reports, the ASCS summaries of individual farms' participation in the program, were requested for about 12,000 farms in those counties under the Freedom of Information Act. One such farmer was Don Gresham, who raises cotton on 4,000 acres near Levelland. Gresham readily offers that he and his son operate their farms under five different names precisely because of federal payment limitations _ in the case of drought aid, $100,000 per farmer. According to government program formulas, Gresham grossed nearly $100,000 more than had he grown his cotton successfully. 