He knew they could only be those of Jean-Louis Etienne, a Frenchman who was about to become the first man to ski alone to the pole. After reaching their destination, they began planning the Trans-Antarctica Expedition, which is to begin Aug. 1. Their previous exploits were for the sheer joy of pitting man against nature. This one would do that and more: draw attention to threats against nature and to the need for international cooperation in protecting Antarctica. Steger and Etienne enlisted scientists and explorers from the Soviet Union, China, Japan and Great Britain for a seven-month, 4,000-mile trip. Others have crossed Antarctica on snowmobiles and giant snow tractors, but this will be the first unmechanized attempt. The four members from Western nations are not formally backed by their governments. Steger recalled that when he asked if Boyarsky spoke English, a Soviet official replied: "In one year, he will speak English very well." Other international support includes the use of China's Great Wall Station on King George Island as a staging point. New Zealanders stationed at the Scott McArdle base donated 12 dogs whose lineage can be traced to dogs owned by polar explorer Richard Byrd. After refueling in Cuba, the team will fly to the Great Wall Base, about 600 miles south of the tip of South America. They'll visit three American bases _ Palmer, Siple and Amundsen-Scott at the South Pole, where they plan to celebrate Christmas. "We want the world to know much, much more about Antarctica after our expedition than it did before we set out," Steger said. Antarctica's 5.4 million square miles is more than China and India combined. Some want to see the continent cut into pie-shaped wedges, but Steger wants the people of the world to demand that it be protected, intact. Scientists predict continued ozone depletion will increase skin cancer, but such thinking is "myopic," Steger said. Most significantly, increased solar radiation could disrupt the reproduction cycles of plankton, the microscopic oceanic plants and animals that are the basis of the global food chain. These ominous changes are most apparent in Antarctica, making it "like a canary in a mine," Steger said. Qin will take snow and ice samples all the way across Antarctica, recording temperatures and oxygen content for a geological history of the icecap. Steger admits they won't attempt "pure science" but he hopes the findings will contribute to the knowledge of this frontier. 