After seven long years, the US Congress this week passed its first significant gun control law since the assassinations of Mr Robert Kennedy and Rev Martin Luther King Jr in 1968. Advocates of tougher controls on guns were jubilant about their victory over stubborn resistance by Republican senators from western states such as Idaho and Alaska, who have long opposed any restriction on gun ownership in the US. The Brady bill's opponents in Congress say it will inconvenience only law-abiding citizens, not criminals who buy or steal their weapons away from the government's prying eyes. For instance, one newspaper reporter successfully obtained a dealer's licence for his dog by submitting a made-up social security number. Studies of state laws requiring some form of background check suggest, however, that at least some sales to convicted felons have been stopped, and some suspected criminals have been caught when they tried to buy a gun. 'The longest journey begins with a single step,' Mr Brady said after the bill's final passage in the Senate on Wednesday. Other initiatives in Congress and in state legislatures are under way: the Senate last week agreed in a separate bill to ban assault weapons, a measure already in force in California, New Jersey and Connecticut. With the federal government considering the imposition of punitive taxes on some particularly devastating types of ammunition, the Winchester company recently decided to withdraw its Black Talon bullet. This is prized by some game hunters for its killing power but detested by emergency room doctors for the damage it inflicts on humans as it mushrooms on impact. Paradoxically, while thousands of people have been telephoning their Republican senators to demand that they stop blocking the Brady bill, thousands have also been flocking to join the National Rifle Association, the leading organisation among the pro-gun lobbies. Recent election results have shown, too, that simply being tough on guns is not enough to woo the voters. While such results do not indicate that the NRA has been routed, they have put the association on the defensive. Most members now favour some form of gun control, but the core membership opposes all restraints on the sale of firearms. Mr Knox says the Holocaust would not have happened if Europe's Jews had owned rifles, and if the Nazis had not been able to confiscate guns, thanks to gun registration laws passed in the 1930s. Delegate Clinton Miller of the Virginia state assembly, once rated 'A+' by the NRA, now calls the organisation's top members 'hateful, spiteful, arrogant'. 