At the same time, it was disclosed that federal officials are probing the possibility that Exxon's 987-foot oil tanker was on autopilot shortly before it ran aground and that the electronic navigation aid confused the crew and contributed to the accident. After meeting personally with top executives from three of the seven oil companies that own the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. earlier in the week, Cowper asked them to respond by noon Thursday to his six-point safety plan. As the deadline approached, the three companies -- ARCO Alaska, BP America and Exxon USA -- responded with a six-page list of ideas. An aide to the governor described the companies' response as generally OK but said that Cowper may issue an order putting his plan into effect anyway. To reduce the risk, the order, which could be issued as soon as today, would require: -- A written description, due within 72 hours of the order's being signed, of the location of all oil-spill gear at the consortium's disposal. Equipment must be dedicated to oil-spill cleanup only. -- The names of 12 oil spill-response team members who do nothing but respond to oil spills and who are available for such duty 24 hours a day. If it isn't complied with, we don't have any remedy available to us except shut down the terminal. It also would badly pinch the state treasury, which relies on oil taxes and royalties for 85% of its income. Even if Cowper's shutdown were found to illegally interfere with interstate commerce and be overturned in court, it could last long enough to drive home a point about improving cleanup response plans. Alyeska also suggested expanding the Coast Guard's radar system, which had been scaled down as a cost-saving measure in the early 1980s, and offered to keep on hand additional equipment to contain, skim and disperse spills. Coast Guard spokesman Bruce Pimental in Valdez said investigators still are trying to determine if the autopilot actually was used the night of the accident and if it was, when it was turned off. Tom Kilpatrick of the California Maritime Academy, a former captain himself, said autopilots take full control of a ship once they are switched on. 