In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it had sent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to include Baghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children and invalids would be allowed to leave Iraq. President Bush today denounced Saddam's "ruinous policies of war," and said the United States is "striking a blow for the principle that might does not make right." Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he had rejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of the eight-year war with Iran. The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran, which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. Spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling in Baghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heat and lack of transportation. Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands of foreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. There have been reports of wholesale looting but food and gasoline were still available, said a spokesman, who by custom was not identified. Bush then sent U.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massed nearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves. Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protect Saudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arriving Tuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudi capital. The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today its troops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oil outlets through those countries, but according to Jordanian officials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating. Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and political adviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to be carrying. A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources said that Saddam's message called for an international conference to be convened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. Bush, however, says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to the gulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam to withdraw his army. U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that the Security Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorize such a naval operation. At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to Desert Shield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces, paratroopers and infantry. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oil revenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among other charges. 