Total government spending in the OECD countries has risen from 28.1 per cent of GDP in 1960 to 43.8 per cent in 1990. Social security payments more than doubled during this period, from 7 per cent of GDP to 15.4 per cent. Expenditure has risen rapidly in recent decades, more than doubling its average share of GDP in OECD countries since 1960. The growth is largely attributable to three factors: The increase in coverage as pension schemes introduced after the second world war mature. Countries such as Spain, Ireland and the Netherlands have been extending their public healthcare systems to provide universal coverage. For example, governments have become much less willing to offer improvements in pensions. Healthcare systems have been reformed to make them more efficient and to bear down on the cost of pharmaceuticals. Many countries have also begun to tighten up on unemployment benefits, with reductions in benefit levels and more rigorous conditions to qualify. But what most concerns those responsible for public finances is the strength of underlying pressures on welfare spending that will push costs upwards in the future. Some countries face much greater pressures from the ageing of their populations than others. By 2040, almost half of Germany's population could be over 65, though the proportion will fall thereafter. Overall, the OECD estimates that the pension burden could double over the next 50 years. In practice, increasing pensions in line with prices might be difficult to sustain if earnings rose faster. The growing gap between pensioners and those still at work that would result could be politically unacceptable. However, raising pensions by more than prices would either require much higher growth rates or higher taxes for those in work to pay the bill. Additional costs of new drugs and advances in medical technology could be at least as important as demography in pushing up healthcare bills. Throughout the OECD, for example, the number of lone-parent families has been rising since the 1960s. In some countries, the increase has been relatively moderate - 20 per cent or less in countries such as France, Japan and Switzerland. Lone-parent families now typically constitute 10-15 per cent of of all families with children in OECD countries. Added to concerns over demography and social change are fears over the increase in unemployment levels across the OECD. Over the past two decades, jobless levels have risen during recessions but not fallen back to the same extent in the following recovery period. Continuing rises in the base level of unemployment would further undermine countries' ability to pay for their welfare states. Germany, the UK, France, Italy and the US are among countries that have already raised tax and social security contribution levels. In a global economy, no country can long afford to burden business with higher welfare costs than its neighbours. An alternative response to cost pressures would be further increases in borrowing to fund the welfare state. Average government debt in OECD countries has risen from 23 per cent of GDP in 1979 to 44 per cent in 1992. This is why the OECD's half-yearly Economic Outlook repeatedly stresses the importance of controlling welfare spending in improving economic performance. The OECD's immediate priorities for reform include charges for the use of some welfare services and greater competition to increase the efficiency of those services. Tackling these longer-term pressures will require more than tinkering with charges and efficiency drives in welfare services. Significant cuts in benefit levels, for example, may be needed - including greater targeting of benefits on the most needy. From providing support 'from the cradle to the grave', it would become a safety net for those who could not afford to provide for themselves. 