The Reagan administration moved to deal with the worsening drought, and a top trade official said that farm export subsidies may have to be curbed. Meanwhile, fears mounted that the fragile recovery of agriculture-related industries will be derailed by continuing lack of rain. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 37.16 points to close at 2094.24, while U.S. government bonds fell more than 1 1/2 points. While he wouldn't predict what kind of disaster relief might be authorized, Mr. Fitzwater said the drought certainly is going to drive up food prices. At a news briefing, Special Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter warned that the administration may have to curb its so-called export enhancement program if the drought becomes even worse. Shrinking soybean stockpiles and soaring prices have stirred speculation that the government may impose an embargo on exports of soybeans and soybean products. Growers still complain about the 1973 embargo, which they say hurt the nation's reputation as a reliable supplier. Earlier this week, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng took an equally adamant stand against such an embargo. Hefty government subsidies on last year's strong harvests put a record amount of cash into farmers pockets. Realtors in rural areas say that land prices, which had just begun to turn around, may be affected. Tractor sales by farm equipment dealers were up 12.8% during the first five months of the year. Now, with farmers in many Midwest states expecting smaller harvests this year, these businesses are seeing their new-found trade evaporating. In Franklin, Tenn., implement dealer Larry Holt is slashing his fall orders by one-third, even though sales so far this year are up roughly 25%. J.I. Case the farm implement-making unit of Tenneco Inc., is considering cutting production schedules if the drought continues through July. It's already getting harder to sell farmers tractors because of the drought, says James K. Ashford, Case president and chief executive officer. Many rural lenders this spring were banking on farmers losing some of their post-farm crisis inhibitions about going into hock. In Anadarko, Okla., bankers worry now that ranchers are going to make less money this year because crop damage is escalating the cost of feeding cattle. Because of the drought, Iowa realtors expect land prices to rise somewhat less than the 5% to 10% they had been expecting. Everybody has just kind of pulled in their horns, says Jim Frevert, vice president of Hertz Farm Management Inc., Nevada, Iowa. He is hoping that drought damage and rising crop prices will fan inflationary fears so high that land again will be a hot commodity. Some economists think high crop prices will spark more planting, which would benefit agribusiness, while others think farmers will start the next growing season more conservative. Mr. Lyng's order covers counties where livestock-grazing and hay-mowing on so-called set-aside acres already has been authorized, and the drought's effects have been rated as severe. 