Certainly it raises the question whether there was a terrorist group involved in this, said Gary Laturno, an FBI spokesman. No Motive Yet No one claimed responsibility for the bombing, a federal law enforcement official said. At this point in time, we have no motive; we have no suspect, said Thomas A. Hughes, special agent in charge of the FBI in San Diego. Nonetheless, federal officials acknowledged that the incident followed an FBI lookout report issued in San Diego in late December for a Syrian national allegedly linked to the Dec. 21 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 that killed 259 passengers and crew members in Scotland last year. The Rogerses were being protected Friday night by the Naval Investigative Service and other Navy personnel at an undisclosed location. They are not home, and we will not disclose their location, said Chief Craig Huebler, a Navy spokesman. That gets into security, and you can understand the sensitivity to that. He said that no special security precautions had been undertaken for Rogers, crew members and their families after the Vincennes returned to San Diego. Police and Navy officials said Rogers and his wife telephoned their son, Bill Rogers, at an eastern university, where he is a student. The explosion propelled metal fragments through the roof of the white Toyota and ignited a fire that destroyed the vehicle. Other Vehicles Undamaged Though the van was surrounded on three sides by other vehicles, none of them were damaged, witnesses said. She looked like she'd just been rear-ended or something, said Charles Archer, one of two masonry workers to reach Rogers first. Two law enforcement sources said Will Rogers left the couple's home about 6:30 a.m. and drove in the van to a doughnut shop. He returned, drank coffee with his wife, and then Sharon Rogers, who usually drove the van, left in the vehicle, investigators said. He also said Sharon Rogers told investigators that her family had received no threats since the airplane was downed. If you're getting telephone calls in the middle of the night and threatening letters and graffiti, you would worry. However, two law enforcement sources said one or two pipe bombs had been placed on the transmission under the van. If she didn't get out like that... well, she was very, very lucky, one source said. Within hours, San Diego Fire Department officials confirmed that the blast was caused by a pipe bomb. The Vincennes, a guided-missile cruiser based in San Diego, returned from its six-month Persian Gulf deployment last October. As the Vincennes exchanged fire with Iranian speedboats last July 3, Iran Air Flight 655 appeared on the U.S. warship's high-tech radar system. After the plane failed to respond to warnings on civilian and military channels, Rogers gave the order to fire. All aboard were killed when the plane was knocked out of the air by a Vincennes missile. Terrorism experts believe that the bombing of Pan American Flight 103 may have been retribution for the Vincennes' shooting down of the Iranian jetliner. But no organization that authorities thought capable of the act has claimed responsibility for the bombing of the Pan Am aircraft. Also contributing to this report were Times staff writers Anthony Perry, H.G. Reza Tom Gorman, Jane Fritsch and Patrick McDonnell in San Diego and Ronald J. Ostrow and William Rempel in Los Angeles 