LAST FRIDAY was the day of the annual agricultural show at Prieska in the northern part of South Africa's Cape Province. This is virtually desert country where a farmer needs several thousand hectares and a drought- and heat-resistant breed of sheep to make a reasonable living. It lies between the Great Karoo in the south and the Kalahari in the north and the town owes its existence and past wealth to the mining of blue asbestos and copper from the nearby hills. Now the copper mine is worked out and the lung disease asbestosis has killed the demand for the asbestos the area once produced. Today Prieska relies almost entirely on agriculture and in both prosperity and population it is only half the town it once was. The quality of the sheep entered for the competition was excellent, the food was good and the local MP was among the small crowd. They know him well; for not only is he a neighbouring farmer (his farm is just 170 km away by dirt road and that qualifies as 'neighbour' in this vast hot countryside) but he is also South Africa's minister of agriculture. If the voters reject continued reform Mr van Niekerk, along with the rest of the cabinet, will begin preparations to resign. Indeed, I had expected that the arid area in which the minister's own farm is situated would be suffering most. Aid schemes are being worked out, wherever possible, to write off some debt and to re-schedule the rest, often at subsidised interest rates. Critics of the rescue attempts allege that most of the farmers who are in trouble are financially illiterate and that they are reaping the results of unbridled expenditure and expansion in the boom years of the 1970s and 1980s. Since the repeal of the Group Areas Act two years ago there has already been enormous growth in the squatter camps around big towns. Some of his optimism was based, however, on the possibility that South African-grown wheat could be substituted for maize when it was harvested in November. If they get no rain, there will be no point sowing the seed and they will have no crops to harvest next November. 