But the Senate already has voted to force the Census Bureau to exclude illegal immigrants in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment. It is wrong to apportion congressional seats by counting people who would be deported if our immigration laws were enforced, Rep. Jim Kolbe (R., Ariz.): A very clear reading of the Constitution says that we shall count all those who are present. It boils down to regional politics, says Arturo Vargas, census-program director for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, one of several Hispanic organizations lobbying in favor of counting illegal immigrants. Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), says seats for Connecticut, Michigan, North Carolina and Alabama also are at risk. Illegal aliens are actually taking representation away from Americans, says David Ray, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. That meant one extra seat in the House for California and New York and one less seat for Indiana and Georgia. You end up diluting the vote when you start including illegals, says Rep. Thomas Ridge (R., Pa.), who leads the charge against the practice in the House. If the Census Bureau attempts to ask people their immigration status, that's going to be even harder. We won't report you to the housing authority {if there are too many occupants}, says Peter Bonpanne, an assistant director. If they see a lot of questions on there about somebody's legal status, that could hurt all kinds of people's participation. To satisfy congressional critics, it would have to ask everyone that question, and then ask the legal status of anyone who isn't a citizen. In 1980, a federal appeals court upheld a lower-court decision throwing out a suit that sought to bar the government from counting illegal immigrants. The Constitution originally called for counting free persons and indentured servants, and for counting slaves as three-fifths of a person. Only Indians not taxed were excluded, but no one has fallen into that category since 1940. They wrote, for instance, that only those who have been seven years a citizen of the United States can serve in the House. 