But the same can't be said in the housing industry, where out-of-state wealth has fueled growth over the past decade. It grew up during those years from a purely gambling town to a destination resort attracting families and conventioneers. While gamblers spent money wildly, builders transformed the Las Vegas valley's dirt roads, rock and sand into a carpet of housing developments, man-made ponds and golf courses. Jobs, crisp desert air and the cheap cost of living lured immigrants from around the country, and the population nearly doubled, to 780,000 residents from fewer than 450,000. You must remember that the people who have been successful in this town have always had their feet on the gas pedal, says R. The movers and shakers have not been conditioned to deal with great economic downturns, Mr. Schwer says. In 1983, the Nevada state Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to Las Vegas. As a result, experts say, the economy still lacks the diversity that would help it weather another prolonged downturn. Still, Las Vegas isn't Phoenix, and there haven't been any billion-dollar thrift seizures or distressed land sales yet. What's more, the national credit crunch has saved developers from building projects with no prospect of success. The strong will survive, says Golden Nugget's chairman, Stephen Wynn, whose $710 million Mirage continues to lure crowds from neighboring casinos. Bally Manufacturing Corp., one of the nation's biggest gambling companies, has defaulted on its casino debt, and it has trimmed its staff by 600 workers. At Hilton Hotels Corp., high-roller competition from the Mirage and Caesars Palace has cut into operating profit, which fell 50% in the third quarter. Now Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. The Landmark hotel and casino shut its doors earlier this year; the Aladdin has filed for bankruptcy protection and is slated for auction. Over the next year, builders have applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. With the California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't have made my deal today, he says. Some development companies are betting that any slowdown will be brief and are plunging ahead with ambitious projects. Construction has already begun on Lake Las Vegas, a $3.5 billion project bankrolled by the Bass brothers on 2,200 desert acres. We all know there'll be a slowdown here, just like there's going to be one everywhere, says Coldwell Banker's Mr. Haze. Now I think when California gets its cold, we just might only get a case of sniffles. 