On the face of it, those figures would seem to resolve the age-old debate over whether increases in the minimum wage cost the economy a significant number of lost jobs. Yet now, as Congress moves toward raising the $3.35-an-hour minimum wage for the first time since 1981, the battle rages just as hot and heavy as ever. Conservatives and business groups argue, as they have since the first minimum-wage law took effect in 1938, that employers will seek to cut costs by hiring fewer people -- these days, especially the young and minorities. Higher wages... for some will mean jobs lost for those workers who are trying hardest to break into the labor market, warns GOP Sen. John Zalusky, an economist at the AFL-CIO, which is strongly pushing the minimum-wage increase, snaps: The whole issue of job loss comes up every time, and there's never been any jobs lost. The labor federation notes that since World War II, employment actually increased each time the minimum wage was raised, except in the 1975 recession. With youth unemployment nearly three times the overall jobless rate and minority youth unemployment more than six times that rate, the worst thing we could do is to exacerbate this problem, says Labor Secretary William Brock. For instance, a 1970 report ordered by then-Labor Secretary George Shultz found that general business conditions are the main influence on teen-age employment, with only hints of an adverse effect from the minimum wage showing up in the data. Studies about whether minimum-wage increases hurt, or help, black workers are all over the lot, says University of Michigan economist Charles Brown. Valley Variety, an Ansonia, Conn., dime store that pays employees two cents above the minimum, would forgo its expansion plans for a second store, says owner Richard Armstrong. In many areas, however, a growing shortage of new workers has resulted in more-generous wages for fast-food, retail and other jobs, making the minimum-wage question irrelevant. In recent months, Philip Litman, owner of Bradford Stephen Inc., a Worcester, Mass., company with two gift stores, has seen the wage he must pay to get and keep help climb to $6 an hour from $4. Many association members already pay well above the wage floor, explains Randolph Hale, a vice president: It's an important issue, but it's not the end of the world. He is also pushing to exempt small business from the wage-floor requirement, and wants legislators to drop a provision that after 1990 would tie the minimum wage to average manufacturing wages. Fred Grandy, a member of the House Labor Committee: If members of Congress feel they can raise their own pay but not raise the pay of the average low-paid worker, they're mistaken. 