Aghast is more like it, says Leslie Pawson, 86, a three-time Boston champion who ran against Mr. Kelley half a century ago. I can't even remember when I ran my last marathon. ( That means I don't have to pay taxes there, he jokes.) Last year, five Japanese runners were waved away by the bodyguards, as they sidled up to the old celebrity during the race. Recalls Suni Tomomitsu, one of the runners: At first we thought, 'Oh, wow, he's like Mafia man.' Then we said, 'Oh no, this is nice Johnny Kelley.' Peter Foley, who was born in 1859, was a regular until he was well into his 80s. Starting at dawn (six hours before the official noon start), Mr. Foley would eventually saunter across the finish line in the moonlight. His best time ever was in 1945: 2 hours, 30 minutes, 40 seconds. The winners get a medal and $55,000, says Mr. Kelley. Physiologically, whatever that means, I got all A's, Mr. Kelley reports of his checkup four months ago. Mr. Kelley's resting pulse rate -- 60 beats a minute -- is well below the average person's 72 beats. On the stress test the clinic gives, Mr. Kelley holds the endurance record for his age group. His only purpose was to relax and have some fun. All day long, I did what my boss told me to do, he recalls. In 1928, when he was 21, he entered his first Boston Marathon but didn't finish. (He has competed, all told, in 112 marathons, including the 1936 and 1948 Olympics. A steep descent into Newton Lower Falls can jar a tired runner's bones. It cost him at least two victories, he says. And finally there's the Haunted Mile, a stretch where many runners have collapsed. Boston's skyline, 2 1/2 miles in the distance, can seem so far away. Though still going strong, Mr. Kelley acknowledges the marathon gets tougher each year. Unlike many runners, Mr. Kelley doesn't bother with stretching exercises before he runs in the morning. This is my warm up: I empty the dishwasher, I set up the coffeepot, but I don't plug it in. Then I check the outside temperature to see what clothes to wear. The 82-year-old Mrs. Kelley adds, I just try to stay in his shadow, but I have a hard time even doing that. If for some reason I don't finish the marathon, I don't owe an apology to anyone. But I'll tell you, the Boston Marathon -- with all those people waving -- is better than my birthday. 