The real surprise is that some strong supporters of free markets, such as The Wall Street Journal, have been the biggest advocates of term limits. One argument is that incumbent politicians have unfair advantages in elections because of their ready access to campaign funds, staff, mailing and travel privileges, media publicity, and so on. Hence, the electorate is fooled systematically into supporting incumbents even when they are inferior to their challengers. This argument is similar to the Galbraith-like view that big corporations with massive advertising budgets can consistently dupe their customers into buying inferior products. Supporters of free markets and the capitalistic system reject this message because they have faith in the self-interested consumer to discipline the companies that do not deliver the goods. Another argument is that a citizen Congress with its continuing flow of fresh faces into Washington would result in better government than that provided by representatives with lengthy tenure. But if the electoral control process is working, so that officeholders conform with the interests of the majority of their constituents, then the electorate rewards its representatives with re-election. If the public voted against satisfactory performers just to install a new face, then officeholders would have less incentive to behave and the system would work badly. Much has been made of Alexander Hamilton's reflections on this point in Federalist 72: One ill effect of the exclusion {from re-election} would be a diminution of the inducements to good behavior. Representatives accumulate more power as they become more senior, partly because of better committee assignments and more staff and partly because of increased familiarity with government officials and institutions and with outside interest groups. Some aspects of this power, such as greater experience with governmental programs, are desirable; others, such as the increased ability to extract funds from interest groups, are not. As an example, the voters of Washington state recently rejected a proposal that would have limited the seniority of their congressional representatives relative to those of other states. Yet the same voters likely would have approved a proposal that limited the terms of all Congressional representatives, not just those from Washington. If a representative's power to favor his or her district did not vary with seniority, then voters would not have an excessive incentive to re-elect incumbents. It does not seem to matter much -- it may even be detrimental -- if the content of a Civil Rights Act actually has something to do with civil rights. Greater experience may justify positions of more authority, and, the rewards from seniority give Congress an efficient method to motivate good behavior from junior members. These arguments parallel the benefits from worker seniority in firms (or, indeed, the usefulness of a parole system as a carrot to help control inmates in prisons). Executive term limits are therefore a bad idea, but one should not expect vastly better performance at the state or national level from the elimination of these restrictions. 