But the three-tunnel thoroughfare under the English Channel is almost 60 percent over budget, embroiled in a contractor dispute and scrambling for more investment money. "We will have the money to finish the project," says Alastair Morton, British deputy chairman of Eurotunnel, the privately owned Anglo-French company overseeing the work. The Chunnel's June 15, 1993 scheduled debut will come six months after the 12-nation European Community formally drops remaining trade barriers and becomes a unified marketplace of 320 million consumers. "Britain becomes branch line of Europe," a Guardian newspaper headline declared after the government announced June 14 that it would not fund a high-speed rail link between London and the British end of the tunnel. The British resisted an undersea bond with the continent envisioned nearly 200 years ago by a French engineer named Albert Mathieu. Tunneling actually was started in subsequent efforts in 1882 and 1974 but they were scrapped. In this country, the attitude to these projects tends to be the reverse," Morton told a recent news conference. Eurotunnel Chairman Andre Benard said the company has provided for any foreseeable problems, but stressed: "We always made it very clear that this was a risk project." Giant boring machines are digging three tunnels toward each other from Folkestone, England and Calais, France, with the first underground meeting expected in November in the service tunnel between the rail tunnels. Eurotunnel estimates that 28 million passengers and 17 percent of Britain's non-oil trade will pass through the tunnel in the first year. The Civil Aviation Authority says the tunnel should divert 5 million out of 53 million air passengers annually. This past Wednesday, shareholders approved a sale of an extra $906 million worth of stock to existing shareholders, who already have bought $1.7 billion worth. That step could clear the way for a bank syndicate's approval of additional credit Eurotunnel has requested, from $8.6 billion to $12 billion. The company most recently estimated it would cost $13.1 billion to complete, vs. $8.3 billion forecast initially. But stockholders haven'rofit before thet fared badly: The shares, first traded in November 1987 at about $6, have traded recently at $8.55. 