Shining Path guerrillas, who started their bloody uprising in the mountains eight years ago, are moving into the shantytowns that encircle the capital like a noose. His Maoist rebels, once secretive fanatics, are becoming a political force that seeks public support in Huaycan and the other makeshift communities where two-thirds of Lima's 7 million people scrape along. Their huts built of straw mats line the bone-dry slopes of the Andean foothills 15 miles east of downtown Lima. "Most evaluations of Sendero Luminoso's eight-year expansion under the democratic system... have become increasingly grim," the Andean Report, a respected economic journal, said recently. One reason the movement grows is its appeal to Peru's Indians, subjected for centuries to scorn and discrimination by the white ruling elite. Officials have become alarmed by the broadening of tactics to include infiltration of legitimate organizations, including unions of government workers. They say this clouds distinctions between the legal and illegal left, making it move difficult to combat the rebel movement. Followers call Guzman, 54, "the fourth sword of Marxism" after Marx, Lenin and Mao. According to counterinsurgency experts, the guerrillas switched their emphasis to the cities because migration of Indian peasants to urban centers accelerated after the highlands became a battlefield. Guzman's guerrillas have followed tens of thousands of peasants from the Andes into Lima's shantytowns and see the slums as a new stronghold. It quoted Guzman as saying in his first interview since going underground in 1980: "We had to follow the road from the countryside to the city. Guerrillas threaten and sometimes kill community leaders, establish "people's schools" and set up "street theaters" for propaganda, it said. Cardinal Juan Landazuri of the Roman Catholic Church said: "Priests tell me that young people in the shantytowns are going over to Sendero. Red-painted slogans hailing the "People's War" and "President Gonzalo," the rebel name for Guzman, cover the concrete-block clinic, other buildings with solid walls and even large rocks. Residents were suspicious and uncommunicative when an Associated Press reporter visited, except for three 10-year-old boys at the entrance who laughed and waved red flags with the Shining Path's hammer-and-sickle emblem. Most factories are behind high walls topped with barbed wire and towers from which guards with automatic rifles keep watch. 