But Judge Thomas's friends and foes agree that his nationally televised trial by fire cannot fail to change him as a jurist. In his own testimony, he said an assassin's bullet would have been preferable to the public hearings over allegations of sexual harassment. But those who had qualms about Judge Thomas before Anita Hill's accusations against him exploded in public worry that the hearings will push him in a different direction. He now sees himself as the victim of some kind of left-wing conspiracy, says Estelle Rogers, a Washington attorney. Conservative legal commentator Bruce Fein, who had been a Thomas supporter, says the Senate should have rejected the nominee because the Supreme Court has got to be an institution that's above suspicion. Legal experts all along the political spectrum believe the rocky confirmation hearings will influence the judge's views on a host of issues soon to be before the court. The charges by Prof. Hill could hardly fail to influence his thinking on a sexual harassment case that will be argued this fall. Kennedy fears, could easily enough affect his view of cases involving the separation of powers between the three branches of government. The high-tech lynching, as he called it, could also make him less sympathetic to a free press in First Amendment cases. On the other hand, liberals hope that his experience at the hands of the Senate will have sensitized Judge Thomas to the rights of people charged with wrongdoing. His contention that he was wrongly accused could make him empathize with those who protest their innocence. Shortly after Justice Hugo Black's confirmation in 1937, for example, it came to light that he had been a dues-paying member of the Ku Klux Klan. We have never had such sustained public scrutiny of such sensitive private matters involving a Supreme Court nominee, observes Robert Katzmann, a political scientist at the Brookings Institution. As Judge Thomas helps decide controversial cases over the years, the specter of Anita Hill's lurid allegations will almost certainly be evident. The case, expected to be argued before the court later this year, centers on a female high-school student who was forced by a male coach to have sex with him. The question is, can the student sue the county school system for damages under federal anti-bias law. He might even be asked to recuse himself from the case, though it's unlikely he would do so. We hope this was an educational experience and that he'll be molded in a way to be more sensitive, she says. As chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Mr. Thomas said, he took swift action against EEOC officials who were found to have engaged in sexual harassment. The issue that dominated the first round of Judge Thomas's hearings last month, was abortion-the most contentious issue before the court. Women's rights organizations fear that Judge Thomas's animosity toward liberal interest groups will influence his decisions on reproductive rights. In the intervening months, abortion-rights advocates worry that Judge Thomas's bitterness toward them will harden and push him into an anti-Roe majority on the court. One legal expert who knows Judge Thomas well is convinced that the new justice will be very negative about any issue enhancing congressional powers. Even before the experience of the past week, he probably would have fallen under the influence of Justice Antonin Scalia, a staunch foe of expanding congressional powers. He called the 1988 Supreme Court decision on the constitutionality of the independent counsel law the most important case since Brown vs. Board of Education. Judge Thomas asserted that Justice Rehnquist, who wrote the majority opinion upholding Congress's action, failed not only conservatives but all Americans. The media took the whole thing and sensationalized it, promoted false charges, just like the Tawana Brawley case, Mr. Williams says. And, in all probability, reporters will continue their digging into Judge Thomas's past in an effort to get to the bottom of Anita Hill's charges. There's a Pulitzer Prize out there waiting for any reporter who solves this mystery, observes Susan Estrich, a law professor at the University of Southern California, who helped run Gov. Once confirmed, a Supreme Court justice probably can't be impeached for past infractions, such as lying to Congress or committing sexual harassment, says Laurence Tribe of Harvard Law School. Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, a member of the ethically tarnished Keating Five, commiserated with Judge Thomas about being pilloried. Government agents used three undercover operations over 29 months to send mailings from phony pornography publishers to Nebraska farmer Keith Jacobson. 