That decisive contest may have begun last night, as M1-A1 tanks of the Army's Third Armored Division swept eastward across southern Iraq in a driving rainstorm to pummel and defeat a Guard division. After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said. And they reluctantly concede the Iraqi leader is likely to remain standing even after his army is totally ejected from Kuwait. In addition, the Bush Administration has been planning for details such as a demilitarized zone along the Iraq-Kuwait border. Those presidential remarks, aides said, were intended to lay down the principles that will guide the U.S. and its coalition partners in the last stages of the war. The fighting inside Kuwait will stop, Mr. Bush declared, when Iraqi soldiers in and around Kuwait lay down their arms. Perhaps worse, the allies could tarnish a victory if they seem willing to inflict too much damage on Iraq itself in an attempt to punish Saddam Hussein personally. Despite weeks of fierce bombing, officials say, the Guard unitsespecially their tank divisions -- remain strong. Relying on night-vision goggles, infrared scopes and the element of surprise, the fast-moving armored column sought to flush the Guards out of their carefully camouflaged defensive positions. At that point, facing overwhelming air power and the cream of the allied army's tanks, Guard commanders will have the choice of giving up or seeing their divisions destroyed. The whole corps plan is written upon that premise, that he will have to move to come toward advancing U.S. tank columns. Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt. Recently, bad weather has prevented A-10 Warthog jets and and Apache attack helicopters from pounding the dug-in armor, and the rain and clouds are expected to continue to inhibit air raids for the next few days. More broadly, U.S. commanders reported yesterday that allied forces have destroyed or rendered ineffective 21 Iraqi divisions, more than half the total in and around Kuwait. He also didn't appear to entirely give up his claim to Kuwait as a province of Iraq, saying that the country was annexed on Aug. By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering him out of Kuwait, Saddam is giving us every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power, said one Bush administration official. For starters, the U.S. hopes that the Iraqi people themselves will conclude that Saddam Hussein botched both his war with the U.S.-led coalition and his various attempts to stop it once it was underway. But others, including Soviet officials who have been trying to broker a peaceful way out for their old ally, warn of risks. Aleksander Belonogov, a Soviet deputy foreign minister, said the Kremlin favors restoring Iraq to its rightful place in the Arab world. While the tank battles began to the west, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out. Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly. Allied commanders face major problems in providing food, transportation and medical care for what is likely to turn into well over 100,000 prisoners. To the south, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out. Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra. Gen. Kelly said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly. Allied commanders face major problems in providing food, transportation and medical care for what is likely to turn into well over 100,000 prisoners. 