I said, 'Look, I don't know what he is taking or what he is doing, but he is doing something.' Francis based his theory on the fact that Johnson took the steroid furazabol three weeks before the Games, not the difficult-to-detect stanozolol. Francis said that two witnesses told him that the stranger had spoken with Lewis in another area of the waiting room. Any allocation or innuendo that Carl Lewis tampered with Ben Johnson's drink or sample is ludicrous, said David Greifinger, Lewis' attorney. By continuing their present course of action they are just embarrassing themselves further. Though Johnson's gold medal and Seoul world-record time were both revoked, his world mark of 9.83 seconds stands. If that were to happen, Lewis would replace Johnson as the world record-holder. IAAF officials, however, said the record will stand because Johnson passed a drug test after the 1987 race. Lewis also contended that Francis' testimony painted a false picture as to why Johnson would take performance-enhancing drugs. The drugs induce the growth of muscle tissue, and some athletes claim, help performances. Most of your great athletes are clean, Lewis said. Lewis, however, refused to implicate any of his colleagues. But Lewis defended Evelyn Ashford, a world-class sprinter who was implicated as a steroid user in Francis' testimony last week. I don't think that will hurt her image because Evelyn is clean and she always stood for being clean. Even before Lewis replaced Johnson as the gold-medal winner two days after the race, the U.S. Olympian said he was happy with his result. I've come to grips with the fact that I'm the best I can be and I can't ask for anything more, he said. It didn't ease the pain of not winning and feeling he (Johnson) was on drugs. He needs to stand up and say, 'Don't do it. Don't take it unless you know what it is.' Somebody takes cocaine because they want to get high. Some people take steroids because they want to run faster. I could leave it all alone but the thing is, I want track to be a better sport than when I came. If anybody gets what they deserve in track and field, it's me. But I still believe that through it all I want to help every single person whether they make $50 a meet or near what I make. 