In choosing federal Judge Robert Bork for the Supreme Court, President Reagan has tapped a leading architect of conservative legal theory -- and has ensured a tough confirmation battle in the Senate. The selection of the 60-year-old Judge Bork to replace retiring Justice Lewis Powell gives the president his third Supreme Court appointment and by far his greatest opportunity to alter the court's direction. The high court, with Justice Powell often the swing vote, has been narrowly divided for a number of years on volatile social issues, including upholding abortion and affirmative action. However, judicial conservatives most often tend to reach conclusions that support conservative political views. And liberal Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee, fearful that Mr. Reagan's choice may upset the Supreme Court's moderate balance, have made clear they will fight any candidate whose views about the Constitution and the courts are too conservative. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, a Judiciary Committee member, lost no time urging that Judge Bork should be defeated. President Reagan announced his choice yesterday afternoon in the White House press room, lavishing praise on the nominee's intellectual abilities. Judge Bork, widely regarded as the most prominent and intellectually powerful advocate of judicial restraint, shares my views that judges' personal preferences and values should not be part of their constitutional interpretations, Mr. Reagan said. He described Judge Bork, who stood next to him without comment, as an impressive legal mind and a premier constitutional authority. The announcement came just five days after Justice Powell announced his retirement, citing his health and the approach of his 80th birthday. From the outset, Judge Bork was the clear front-runner to fill the vacancy, being favored by Attorney General Edwin Meese and his aides. The only questions were whether to go with a younger conservative whose influence would last well into the next century and whether the strength of Judge Bork's conservative views would make his confirmation too difficult. While the White House put aside the age issue, the confirmation process is likely to be a contentious one, both in the 14-member Senate Judiciary Committee and on the Senate floor. Committee Democrats say they don't expect to start hearings until September, raising questions about whether Judge Bork would be approved by the Supreme Court's opening next Oct. 5. President Reagan urged the Senate to expedite its consideration ; his aides will push for a July start, although they aren't sure they will succeed. At 6 feet, over 200 pounds and rotund, with hair like a scouring pad and a beard to match, he is an imposing figure, made more so by his deep baritone voice. His wife, Mary Ellen, a former nun, has been a calming influence, friends say, although also a very conservative one. He sometimes listens to books on tape while driving to work from his northwest Washington home, and while solicitor general in the Nixon administration, he pored over the New York Times crossword puzzle daily. At a solicitor general's office reunion in 1978, the dinner went some $250 over budget because Judge Bork kept the bar open well after the planned closing. He first caught the eye of the legal community writing about antitrust law as a Yale Law School professor in the 1960s. In 1973, President Nixon tapped him to be solicitor general, the Justice Department official who represents the executive branch before the Supreme Court. Mr. Richardson says Mr. Bork considered resigning but that he urged him to remain for the stability of the Justice Department. And the AFL-CIO urged senators to refrain from endorsing Judge Bork until they can carefully review his record. There he studied economics under Aaron Director, a pioneer in applying economic logic to challenge a variety of theories and liberal beliefs. But some friends and colleagues say his views don't mean that he would automatically vote to overrule the right to abortion. But he has since modified his position, concluding that many other forms of discourse, such as moral and scientific debate, are central to democratic government and deserve protection. He is a good friend of President Reagan's last nominee, Justice Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice William Rehnquist used to stay with Judge Bork on visits to Yale. 