It is infectious, invariably fatal and as insidious as termites, sometimes eating away brain cells for years without detection before a critical mass is spongified. Now, after decades of detective work, medical sleuths appear to be closing in on the molecular culprits behind the disease. Spongiform research already has raised questions about a cornerstone of biology and spawned a Nobel Prize. The uncanny nature of the disorder sometimes grips scientists with a kind of obsessive fascination, notes NIH researcher D. He should know, having chased spongiform leads around the globe for 33 years and won a Nobel Prize in the process. About 20,000 British cattle have been destroyed since 1986 in hopes of eradicating the spongiform mad cow disease, which makes the animals jittery before they keel over. A few weeks ago, the first confirmed case of mad cow disease outside Britain turned up in Switzerland. Scientists agree, however, that the disease in animals probably poses little danger to people. Scrapie has existed for centuries and the world is bathed in its infectious agent, says Dr. Gajdusek. Yet sheep have never been strongly implicated in cases of the human form of the disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, or CJD. At least not until the Poltar journalist and two other people died of CJD at about the same time in a rural, sheep-herding part of eastern Czechoslovakia. One CJD victim even slept with a pet sheep until age 13. Now villagers there call CJD our sheep disease. Soon kuru victims' brains started issuing from the heart of darkness to distant medical centers, compliments of Dr. Gajdusek. Two years later, William Hadlow, a U.S. veterinarian, saw a picture of one of the kuru brains in a medical journal and was struck by its spongy appearance. He had seen that look before in scrapie, the sheep disease, and put in a call to the NIH. Another link fell into place when Igor Klatzo, an NIH scientist, noticed kuru brains resembled ones from CJD victims. Brain tissue of infected animals could transmit the disease when injected into different animals' brains, yet microscopes revealed no signs of infectious microbes. It seemed like biological spontaneous combustion, says NIH researcher Paul Brown. In the early 1980s, scientists discovered that CJD, like Alzheimer's disease, often gums up the brain with a kind of junk, or amyloid, protein. But their theory entails a biologically weird premise: that the altered protein replicates itself without the aid of genetic material, the basis of all known reproduction. All this, however, doesn't explain what happened after Dr. Brown baked isolates of the disease agent for an hour at 680 degrees Fahrenheit, a temperature that melts proteins. He also buried isolates in his garden for three years and found they remained infectious. The results may be very disquieting, he says, to British farmers, who have been burning and burying mad cow corpses. Still, Dr. Brown and other scientists aren't much worried about mad cows because their animal studies show spongiform disease is very hard to transmit orally. Perhaps the mad cows got such doses every time they went to the feedbag, says Dr. Brown. Examining his brain, a veterinarian found a telltale sponginess, sparking another round of panic in the U.K. about spongiform disease. Now more than 10 British cats have died of it, suggesting brains from infected sheep or cows got into cat food. Meanwhile, yet another spongiform outbreak has occurred, this time among northeastern Pennsylvanians. During the past few months, the NIH team, working with Dr. Mitrova, has found a thread that for the first time may link many such CJD cases. But Dr. Brown's excitement grew when three other, unrelated CJD victims were found to carry the same genetic defect. They were all of Eastern European descent, suggesting people of similar ancestry might carry the gene. 