Between now and 1992, more than 20,000 hotel rooms will be added to the 61,000 existing rooms, hotel owners and industry analysts say, and about 7,000 of those will be in two hotels. One is the $630-million Mirage, being built by Golden Nugget Inc., which will have 3,100 rooms when it opens Dec. The Mirage and Excalibur will be the first new major projects in the city in 15 years, and with their unusual features, they will be must-sees. But Fletch Brunelle, research coordinator for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, said that there are hotel construction projects under way all over the city. He estimated that about 11,500 hotel rooms are being built, and 38,000 more are proposed, some of which will be completed after the 20,000 planned to be available by 1992. Many of the new rooms are being added to existing hotels, which are also expanding their casinos and convention halls, Leonard added. The construction boom was created, experts say, by an aggressive marketing strategy used in the past few years by the state, the city's Convention Authority and the major hotels to capture conventions, trade shows and group tours. Nevada, especially Las Vegas, is already one of the top destinations for group tours coming from Asia, said Rich Moreno, state director of tourism. Since an office to stimulate Japanese travel to Nevada was established in Tokyo three years ago, the number of Japanese tourists visiting the state jumped from 165,000 to 300,000, he added. Southern California is our primary market, Sain said, estimating that Californians represent up to 42% of all Las Vegas visitors, which jumped from 11.7 million to 17.2 million in the past 10 years. About two-thirds of the California visitors come from Southern California, said Maurice Robinson, a senior manager with KPMG Peat Marwick, Los Angeles. Laughlin a Boom Town If you really want to see a boom town, though, you should go to Laughlin, Leonard said. Laughlin drew some business from downtown Las Vegas, he said, but owners of the downtown Las Vegas hotels and casinos have changed their marketing strategy to capture richer customers. They switched, said Jim Needham of Arthur Young in Seattle, from courting blue-collar workers and moms and pops carrying around milkshake containers of nickels to younger people looking for a one-stop place for a show, gambling and resort. They changed their marketing strategy by seeking conventions and those visitors who would stay longer than a day. Most of Atlantic City's 30 million annual visitors do not stay overnight, observed Sean Hennessey, a vice president of Landauer Associates, New York. Many hotels are also adding convention accommodations, including the Sands, where a 1-million-square-foot convention center, touted as the largest outside a facility operated by a community, is expected to be completed in 17 months. It's all part of the city's drive to stay on top of the competition, including state lotteries, which, gaming experts say, have helped the casinos at the same time. New Experiences Planned But Las Vegas is banking on more than its current gaming and convention capabilities to draw visitors and fill hotel rooms. For some time, the 3,174-room Las Vegas Hilton has been billed as the largest hotel in the free world. Occupancy Rates 85% Current occupancy rates are in the 85% range in Las Vegas, while occupancies range between 65% and 70% for hotels in the rest of the country, according to Hennessey. In the eight years I've been here, not that many new motels have been built because most convention and trade show people want hotels with all their amenities. And when you consider that only about 10% of the people in the United States have ever been to Las Vegas, you know that the city has a hell of a long way to grow. 