But the chief, who has remained steadfast through repeated calls from community leaders for his ouster, said later: I don't expect to just run away from the job. Officers commonly typed racial epithets to one another on their patrol car computer systems, such as: Sounds like monkey slapping time and I almost got me a Mexican last night. Yet supervisors made no effort to monitor or control these messages, evidence of a significant breakdown in the department's management responsibility, the report found. The Los Angeles Police Department has long been emulated by others around the country because of its reputation for being efficient and corruption-free. Mr. Williams likened the report to the Knapp Commission, a 1970s blue-ribbon study that exposed widespread corruption in the New York Police Department and led to significant improvements there. As troubling as some of our findings are... they are not unique to Los Angeles, said John A. Arguelles, vice chairman of the 10-member Independent Commission on the Los Angeles Police Department. Among the commission's recommendations are: -- A commission appointed by the mayor that oversees the department should be reorganized and strengthened, and made responsible for handling citizen complaints. Over the years, the city council and the mayor have been reluctant to even add additional officers to the LAPD. There are 8,450 officers here for more than 3.5 million people; Chicago, with a smaller population, has 12,000. However, Michael Yamaki, one of the city's five police commissioners, believes that given the systemic problems in the department that have come to light, citizens now will be more willing to fund police issues. The commission's recommendations will now be reviewed by the City Council, which will weigh whether to adopt them in whole or in part. Ultimately, voters must decide several issues, including whether to set term limits on the chief's tenure. The harsh tone of the report was welcome vindication for community leaders who have claimed that police brutality is widespread. The report shows a particularly damning pattern of acceptance, and even encouragement, of officers who violate the rules governing excessive force. 