Remarkably, as many as 166 persons survived the violent crash, according to Richard Vohs, a spokesman for Iowa Gov. But right now, the number (of survivors) confirmed is 166. Suitcases, paper, mail, clothes, chunks of burning metal and bodies were strewn over the inactive runway at Sioux Gateway Airport, where the plane crashed after desperately circling for a half-hour. One hundred ambulances, fire trucks and helicopters from as far away as South Dakota plucked out the victims. The search for bodies was difficult because some of them were scattered in the cornfield. A team of National Transportation Safety Board investigators left Washington Wednesday night for Sioux City. There were reports from passengers and observers that the plane's right-wing engine also failed before the crash. Radio transmission indicated the plane's maneuverability was limited to right-hand turns. Preparing for Crash Landing Then they said we were preparing for a crash landing. They said it would be about 30 seconds, but it was about five minutes, another passenger said. We thought it was going to make it, said Glen Olson, city editor of the Sioux City Journal. I think it landed upside down, said passenger Melanie Cincala of Toledo, Ohio, who said the plane burst into flames after she got off. Huge clouds of smoke and flames billowed upward as firemen sprayed foam over the wreckage. 'Push Little Girl Out' Then God opened a hole in the basement (the bottom of the plane) and I pushed a little girl out. I grabbed another, kept pulling them out until they didn't come no more. Dr. Romaine Bendixen, clinic commander of Iowa National Guard's 185th tactical fighter group, said he was the first doctor on the scene, about three minutes after the crash. From looking at one or two of them you wouldn't know they were in the accident, Graham said. Their clothes were clean, not mussed, their hair was in place and they had no scratches he could see, he said. St. Luke's Regional Medical Center said 80 to 90 crash victims had been admitted and of those 70 were expected to leave the hospital Wednesday night. About 50 survivors were housed overnight at Briarcliff College. Lavonne Quirin of Alta, in Buena Vista County, 75 miles from the airport, said she and her husband found a cone-shaped section of the plane in a cornfield at their seed corn business. McDonnell Douglas Corp., which builds the DC-10, said the plane was delivered to United in 1974. United, the nation's second largest airline, has one of the oldest fleets in the industry. On May 25, 1979, American Airlines Flight 191 lost an engine on takeoff, banked sideways out of control, slammed into a field and exploded. All 258 passengers and 13 crew members died, as well as two people on the ground. The NTSB also criticized McDonnell Douglas' design as vulnerable to maintenance damage. Nine persons were hurled to their deaths last Feb. 24 when a cargo door popped open in flight, tearing a gaping hole in a United Boeing 747 jetliner. Turns Up Deficiencies The accident probe has turned up deficiencies in United's procedures regarding the cargo doors. 16, 1987, crash that killed 156 people when a Northwest Airlines jet crashed on takeoff at Detroit Metropolitan Airport. J. Michael Kennedy reported from Sioux City and Bob Baker from Los Angeles. Also contributing to this story were Larry Green and Tracy Shryer in Chicago, Tamara Jones in Denver and Penelope McMillan and Denise Gellene in Los Angeles. HYDRAULIC LOSS -- The complete hydraulic failure reported by the United pilot is one of the most feared events in flying. Page 17 RESCUE TEAMS READY -- The Sioux City, Iowa, fire-and-rescue operations had practiced for a major emergency. 