Some 160km west of Tokyo in Japan's coastal Tokai region is what may be the world's most dense array of geophysical instruments. More than 150 meters and gauges track seismic activity, rock strain, crustal tilt, tidal movements and ground water levels. If the committee so advises, Japan's prime minister will issue an earthquake warning for the Tokai area. Trains will be stopped, traffic routed out of the area, stores closed and pupils let out of schools. Despite the protests, however, Japan's earthquake prediction programme rolls along on inertia, insularity and unrealistic public expectations. In Japan, prediction took on urgency when seismologists concluded that the Tokai area was overdue for a significant quake. The Suruga Trough, a deep submarine trench running just offshore, forms the boundary between two of the earth's tectonic plates. That prospect led to the 1978 Large-Scale Earthquake Countermeasures Act, which established the warning procedure and launched hazard mitigation and emergency response programmes. Even prediction supporters admit there is no scientific theory on which to base a forecast. And many earthquakes occur without any identifiable precursor, even in retrospect. There are also questions as to whether Japan's monitoring efforts are focused in the right place. Recent studies by seismologists at the Ministry of Construction have indicated the possibility of a significant quake occurring in the Izu area between Tokai and Tokyo. The region's geology is straightforward, so they can narrow down the likely location of the anticipated earthquake. Historically, strain along the Suruga Trough has been released in infrequent large earthquakes, rather than numerous small ones. Mogi says they now believe that precursor patterns may be particular to each section of a fault. The public, and even public officials, remain largely unaware that Japan's scientists are debating whether prediction is impossible or merely difficult. Meanwhile, the controversy might be settled if the experts get their call from the technicians monitoring the Tokai data. 