Some Botswana politicians want to change De Beers' exclusive sales contract so that part of their country's output can be sold independently of the South African group's international cartel. This would give Botswana its own 'market window' to see what its diamonds are worth in the free market. Mr Nicholas Oppenheimer, chairman of the group's Central Selling Organisation, argues that if Botswana chose not to sell its production exclusively through his organisation, the CSO's ability to regulate the distribution of rough diamonds would be compromised. He said: 'Because the major (diamond) producers freely consent to sell exclusively through one channel, the CSO is able to preserve an orderly market by matching rough diamond sales closely to consumer demand.' In presentations to Botswana's Minerals Policy Committee and members of parliament, IDC has been arguing that, not only was it commercially essential for Botswana to understand the real value of its diamond output, but that the country had a political responsibility to do so. 'On a political level this would enable the government to answer its critics or its electors with confidence and sure knowledge when questioned about arrangements for the disposal of the country's mineral assets.' It claims analysts have estimated that 50 per cent of De Beers' diamond profits in 1989 came from Botswana. Other substantial producers such as the Soviet Union, Angola, Zaire and Australia do not sell all their production to the CSO and therefore have access to independent market information. It already markets diamonds for producers in Guinea, Guyana, Brazil and the Central African Republic, and is offering to do some marketing for Botswana. It suggests IDC's arguments are flawed because they are based on an assumption that Botswana needs more market information. De Beers, which itself mines about 40 per cent of the world's annual rough diamond output, markets stones from Angola, Australia, Namibia, Tanzania, Zaire and the Soviet Union, as well as South Africa and Botswana. Its promotional budget has been lifted by 20 per cent to more than Dollars 1m a week - Dollars 53m for the year. In addition, Botswana this year faces its first budgetary deficit since 1982 and, according to De Beers' calculations, one of its diamond mines - Orapa -needs investment of USDollars 600m. However, the 'market window' idea is unlikely to be dropped and will almost certainly be raised again when the next contract negotiations start. 