Pinched between the Storm Creek and Clover-Mist blazes, an estimated 150 seasonal residents and dozens of tourists were evacuated twice while hundreds of firefighters faced down walls of flame which threatened annihilation. Eventually, millions of dollars, thousands of man hours, and an early autumn snowfall saved the towns. No structures were lost within the towns' boundaries, but seven residences and five outbuildings were destroyed in the area. One wag even changed the sign leading into town by adding a single letter, rechristening it "Cooked City." Their economically critical summer tourist season a bust and the hunting season crippled, the folks of Silver Gate and Cooke City straggled home in mid-September to pick up the pieces. "The first thing most people around here did was go on vacation," said Patti Smith, owner with her husband, Bob, of the Bearclaw Service and Cabins, a gas station and small motel. "Business was way down this fall because we didn't have the hunters, but we got a lot of curious weekenders from Cody and Billings who wanted to see how bad it was." Winter now cloaks Cooke City and Silver Gate, and only about 70 year-round residents remain to weather the below-zero months. Although postmistress Vicky Menuey keeps the office open five days a week, mail only arrives to ZIP code 59020 from the outside world on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Nearly four feet of snow has piled up against the Smiths' cabins and "that's just the way I like it," exulted Mrs. Smith. It's snowmobiling season now, and clubs from as far away as Canada and Illinois are booked into Cooke City's motels to take advantage of the beautiful scenery and 80 miles of trails in the area. Patti Smith relishes the winter months because she gets caught up on chores, chats with her neighbors and watches videos. Like nearly everybody else in Cooke City and Silver Gate, Mrs. Smith says she never wants to go through another summer like the last one. In his 18 years of studying wildfires, Norum has come across several incidents where wildfires buried themselves in the roots of trees and grasses and smoldered all winter only to pop up through the snow in the spring. 