SLOVENES always had at least as much in common with their Alpine neighbours as with their Balkan partners in the former Yugoslavia. Since Slovenia's declaration of independence in June 1991, the gap between the peaceful, ethnically homogeneous new republic of 2m people and the war-impoverished rest of former Yugoslavia has widened inexorably. 'We have been very lucky,' says President Milan Kucan, the wily former communist who led Slovenia's drive for independence from the Serb- dominated federation. But he, like Mr Janez Drnovsek, the prime minister of Slovenia's three-pronged coalition government, makes clear that Slovenia suffers economically from the disintegration of Yugoslavia and would be one of the principal gainers from a resolution of the bloody Balkan imbroglio. 'Slovenia's southern border with Croatia has become the border between peace and war in Europe,' Mr Kucan declares. At its narrowest point, only a 46 km- long strip of Slovenian coast- line separates Italy from the rest of former Yugoslavia. Austria is insulated from the war-torn regions of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, both once ruled by the Austrian Habs- burgs, thanks to its own 324 km-long border with Slovenia. The new Karavanke road tunnel beneath the Alps, completed just before the 10-day war between Slovenia and the Yugoslav army which immediately followed indep- endence, has underlined Slovenia's traditional importance as a transit route. Independence has, above all, brought peace to Slovenia and left it free to implement the kind of rational market reforms and privatisation policies which remain blocked in the republics absorbed and impoverished by war further south. Slovenia, with its self- contained infrastructure and proximity to western markets, was always by far the richest republic of the former federation. Its per capita GDP of around Dollars 6,000 was three times higher than that of Serbia and five times that of Kosovo, the poorest region of the former Yugoslavia. Now the once-thriving seaside hotels are filled with discons- olate refugees and Croatia's main source of hard currency income has disappeared. Above all, Slovene enterprises were able to build up exports to the rest of Europe, thanks to the volume of sales they were able to make in Yugoslavia which virtually gave them a 22m strong domestic market. These helped restrain costs and improve competitiveness in more demanding hard currency markets. Relations with Croatia, Slovenia's southern neighbour, are generally good but they are complicated by three contentious issues. The plant was built and financed jointly to supply electricity to both republics but financially hard-pressed Croatia is now reluctant to pay its share of the running costs. It is a tragedy that Bosnia's elected leader has now been reduced by the international com- munity to merely one of sev- eral ethnic leaders,' he adds. Independent economists calculate that average real incomes have to fall around 10 per cent from current levels of around DM650 a month if the Slovenian economy is to compete effectively for new markets in the west and attract foreign investment. 