6 ballot would, among other things, limit the terms of statewide officeholders and state legislators. Proposition 131 would limit statewide elected officials to two consecutive four-year terms, state legislators to 12 consecutive years in office; Proposition 140 would hold Assembly members to six years in office, state senators and statewide elected officials to eight. If either passes, or both do, what would state government be like by 1996 and thereafter? Would passage of such measures be likely to spur similar legislation in other states, or at the federal level? (Term limits) would stop (politics) from being a professional occupation. For many members, that's all they've ever done -- be in the Legislature, legislative staff. The Legislature, right now, is controlled by those people who have a vested interest in legislation. They are not really accountable to anyone except their employers. It would become clear rather quickly that you have a bunch of elected amateurs trying to run a very complex, complicated system of state government. It is the ethnic mix, the cultural diversity -- all of those things have to be cranked in. So, governing the state of California... is not as easy and simple as a lot of people would think. Well, there are some of them that are almost not solvable. Karl T. Kurtz, director of state services, National Conference of State Legislatures: The most negative and pernicious impact of term limitations will be on the leadership of the Legislature... But legislatures also need strong committee chairmen, and term limits mean that relatively inexperienced people are going to be in leadership and that they are -- by definition -- lame ducks from the very beginning. It would mean that, in relative terms, the legislatures would cede more power and authority to the executive branch, to lobbyists and to legislative staff. As to what are the implications of term limitations in the state of California, a lot of people think that this is a partisan issue. Democracy requires that, and yet we do not have it. Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund: The Schabarum initiative (Proposition 140, backed by Los Angeles County Supervisor Pete Schabarum), with a six-year limit (for Assembly members), would have an adverse effect on the Latino community. It seems that as we (Latinos) begin to make entries into the political process, the rules are beginning to change. There are a lot of problems with our political process, but this is not the solution. We should throw the rotten apples out, but not the whole system with it. Gary C. Jacobson, fellow, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University; professor of political science, UC San Diego: The standard argument is that the legislative branch would be weakened. Information will be held by bureaucrats, staff, special interests. 