Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News' This Week, said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing. The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions. Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that interdiction of Iraqi shipments would begin almost instantly. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. While shying away from actually using the word blockade, Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. Iraq's first option, of course, may be simply to sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: I don't see anything to be pleasing in there at all. At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. The first would be to launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi window of vulnerability... is closing very fast, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America's close ties with Israel. Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S. There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he's up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. That shows he's nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he's afraid we'll find him, or that internal enemies will, says one U.S. official. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area. 