The Long Beach City Council voted Tuesday to ask the district attorney's office to launch an independent investigation of the Saturday night incident, which was secretly recorded by an NBC television crew. We agreed to review the matter to determine whether a criminal investigation is appropriate, Livesay said, adding that his office hopes to decide by Friday whether a full-fledged investigation is merited. If such an inquiry reveals that brutality was involved, either misdemeanor or felony charges could be filed against the officer, he said. Jackson and Jeff Hill, an off-duty federal corrections officer, donned dirty old clothes and drove into Long Beach in a rented 12-year-old sedan Saturday night as the television crew followed behind in a van. Full Tape Withheld While edited portions of the tape have been broadcast, Long Beach officials have said they need to see everything filmed by the NBC crew to move ahead with their own investigation of the incident. Called 'Unfortunate' At Tuesday's City Council meeting, the mayor called the incident an unfortunate set of circumstances. In determining whether a police officer has used excessive force, prosecutors have to decide whether the officer acted without lawful necessity in assaulting or beating a suspect. Attorney Michael Hannon, who is representing the two officers, said Tuesday that he will contest any allegations of brutality. They denied that Jackson's head was shoved through the window, saying that his elbow smashed the glass. On Monday, however, department officials stopped releasing that statement and said they would have no comment pending the outcome of their internal investigation. Spokesman David Lynn maintained that Hill, the driver of the car, was not violating any traffic laws when he was stopped. It's real hard to tell what's happening below the waist, said Councilman Evan Anderson Braude, maintaining that it is vital that NBC release the rest of its videotapes. Concedes Error by Officer Attorney Hannon conceded that Dickey was wrong to spice his orders to Jackson with obscenities, but he said the cursing was evidence of discourtesy, rather than racism. Obviously, they are not telling the truth when they say they did nothing to bring attention to themselves, Hannon said of Jackson and Hill. 'Proper Police Tactics' The officer, using proper police tactics, pushed him up (against) the side of a building and unfortunately, the window broke, Hannon said. 