Once-lush hillsides are now covered by little more than the skeletons of stately lodgepole pines. Their needles, twigs and even limbs gone up in smoke, some of these widowmakers, as loggers call them, still jut precariously from the charred dirt. Spring Brings Rebirth Spring has come to Yellowstone and with it an inspiring process of rebirth and renewal. But while the 1988 blazes have long since flamed out, the controversy they kindled is still smoldering. Ecologists argue that wildfires clear away dead timber and overgrowth and are vital to the rejuvenation of forests. Tied to Neighbors But parks can no longer be considered ecological and sociological islands, Agee told a conference of conservationists here over the weekend. Leading environmentalists are cautiously optimistic about the new plan because it retains at least a stated commitment to the retention of so-called natural policies. At the same time, however, they warn that saddling park managers with extensive conditions could effectively result in quick suppression of all wildfires. May Become Gun-Shy Michael Scott, regional director of the Wilderness Society, said restrictions could lead to a systematic politicization of ecosystem management and make officials gun-shy about letting fire burn for any reason. They're going to say 'we better just put out the fires,' Scott predicted. Heeding complaints that fires were getting out of hand and could threaten surrounding communities, officials suspended the policy by mid-July. And some of last year's most destructive blazes were triggered by man, not nature, and fought from the first sign of smoke. Authorities say the flames were fanned by record drought and gale- force winds and virtually nothing could have stopped them. 11 essentially stopped what the greatest firefighting effort in history could not, argued John Varley, Yellowstone's chief scientist. And many people who live in nearby resort communities remain bitter over what they contend was a preventable tragedy that could scare away tourists and imperil their livelihoods. If (park superintendent) Barbee were here I'd choke him to death even today, said Betty Morton, a motel owner in tiny Cooke City, where the threat of fire forced a temporary evacuation last September. Will Keep Job While many critics have called for Barbee's head, Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. said in an interview that the Yellowstone superintendent was in no danger of losing his job. Still, Lujan, a former New Mexico congressman appointed to his Cabinet post only this year, said park officials should have admitted that they erred in losing control of the blazes. Morton, for example, said all 12 of the cabins she rents out are usually reserved for the Memorial Day weekend weeks in advance. There are conflicting signals over what impact the fires have had on the tourist trade. Other independent innkeepers, as well as lodges in the park, also report that reservations are soft. Even local merchants, suppressing any anguish over the fire and its ultimate impact, are jumping on the bandwagon. Colorful souvenir books detailing the fires in words and pictures are big sellers at curio shops both in the park and gateway communities. Yellowstone -- The Place Where Hell Bubbled Up, comes in both 90-minute deluxe and 30-minute highlight packages as well as a Japanese narrative version. Circling the wagons against critics, they insist that the uncertainty and furor raised by what happened here resulted largely from media accounts that sometimes wildly exaggerated the extent of the blazes and their impact. Whether coverage was fair or not, the media's impact on heightening awareness of the situation was clearly considerable. The blazes were probably the first major wildfire covered on television by live hourly updates emanating from satellite trucks in the middle of a forest. Lujan's reservations aside, an internal government review has largely backed up the approach taken by Barbee and other park officials in dealing with the fires. Natural, Beneficial Another major post-fire study, this one conducted by a panel of experts from several major universities, has yet to be released. Branches below the productive region of the crown (upper 8 to 10 feet) die and fall off as the tree grows. Here is how reforestation process takes place after logging or a fire: Stage 1- Lodgepole pine saplings grow in stands before forming canopy (up to 40 years after a fire). Stage 2- Closed canopy of even-aged, usually dense young trees (40 to 100 years). Stage 5- Canopy, dominated by over-mature lodgepole pines, beginning to break up (over 300 years). 