He would also weaken the wall separating government and religion and further restrict the rights of criminal suspects and defendants.; Not surprisingly, Thomas' many friends and supporters draw different conclusions. They see him as an independent spirit, a probable centrist on a court that has been steering rightward for several years.; The Georgia beginning; But any attempt to understand the potential successor to the revered Thurgood Marshall must begin in Georgia.; There, just the other day, Leola Williams, Thomas' mother, talked about how the force of family worked on her son:; Clarence was surrounded by all our older parents. Her house off Pin Point Avenue had gone up in smoke, and some months later, her husband went north to Philadelphia, leaving her with two young children and a third on the way.; Williams took her daughter, Emma Mae, and moved in with an aunt while she awaited the birth of her second son, Myers. Clarence went to live with his grandparents in Savannah, to help with Anderson's year-round oil and ice delivery business.; His grandfather proved to be a profound force in Thomas' life -- a mentor, a role model, an unrelenting taskmaster and the embodiment of a personal philosophy that Thomas once recalled this way:; He used to tell me that there was no problem that elbow grease couldn't solve. I helped bury him.' ; When Anderson wasn't coaching Thomas, in his farm fields or on his delivery truck, he made sure the lessons continued, in the hands of the Franciscan nuns of all-black St. Benedict the Moor School.; Thomas, who had experienced racial mistreatment by white seminarians in Georgia, ultimately rejected seminary life. And so Thomas, who was driven from the Missouri seminary by racism, became one of the beneficiaries of an effort to combat it.; Thomas, who paid for his college education with loans, jobs and the newly raised scholarship funds, soon was drawn into the turbulence of Vietnam War and black power politics.; He helped found a Black Student Union, writing and typing its constitution. Sowell's provocative 1983 work, The Economics and Politics of Race, was manna from heaven, Thomas said.; In that book, Sowell, arguing from a laissez-faire perspective, endorsed the notion that blacks would benefit more from pursuing economic achievement than political agitation.; From Yale to Washington; Thomas, always a top student, was recruited out of Yale in 1974 by John Danforth, R-Mo., then Missouri attorney general, a Yale trustee and a frequent campus visitor. Danforth brought Thomas to Jefferson City, Mo., to work in the attorney general's office.; When Danforth became a U.S. senator in 1977, Thomas stayed in St. Louis to work as an assistant counsel for the Monsanto Corp., then in 1979 joined Danforth in Washington as a legislative aide.; Reagan administration officials were so impressed by Thomas and his new conservative leanings that they appointed him assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education. There controversy dogged him for the next eight years.; Congress learned in 1989 that the EEOC under Thomas' direction had permitted more than 13,000 age discrimination claims to lapse.; Civil-rights groups accused Thomas of failing to enforce other anti-discrimination laws as well, and of retaliating against employees who disagreed with his policies.; Thomas concentrated on winning relief for victims of actual discrimination. 