As that encounter suggests, Mr. Sununu, the brainy former New Hampshire governor, has begun thriving in Washington even though his brusque style still rubs some people the wrong way. His boss, President Bush, is enjoying high public approval, important legislation is moving ahead and Mr. Sununu's relationship with the president is strong. Inside the administration, aides say Mr. Sununu has grown more relaxed, more willing to delegate responsibility and surprisingly content to play the role of a detached broker in policy debates. This represents a significant change from the administration's rocky opening months, when some wondered whether the new chief of staff would survive. Many political analysts here believe that Mr. Sununu has moderated his brash style, and that the former governor has adjusted to his White House role. I think this administration takes pains to work hard to make sure the whole is built up of a lot of pieces done in exactly the right way, Mr. Sununu says. He likens the Bush style to the process of forming a mosaic by carefully putting in place small parts one at a time. I hope the good feelings that are out there now are reflective of the fact that people are beginning to appreciate that the pieces are coming together, he says. Indeed, cabinet members and other advisers have enjoyed unusually broad access to the president. Adds Mr. Reilly: Contrary to what some people had feared, that he would simply impose his own view because he's a strong man, I don't have the sense that he did that. Despite such deft internal maneuvering, though, some Democrats and Republicans alike suspect Mr. Sununu, with his combative style, still may be accumulating too many enemies for his own good. This was particularly evident during the Tower debacle, when Mr. Sununu privately lashed out at Sam Nunn, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee who led the fight against Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware -- chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee -- as mostly plagiarism, because it allegedly stole ideas from Mr. Bush's plans. Biden, whose presidential campaign last year collapsed amid charges that he had plagiarized speeches. The senator was particularly rankled because he carefully backed up his crime plan with a 50-page appendix crediting others with many of the ideas. When the Supreme Court rendered its controversial decision curbing abortion rights, for instance, lower-ranking staffers recommended that the White House avoid commenting on the politically explosive decision. And whatever his relations with others, Mr. Sununu's most important relationship -- the one with President Bush -- appears sturdy. He acknowledges arguing that Mr. Bush should propose even deeper cuts in U.S. and Soviet conventional forces than those he ultimately proposed this spring. The other day, Mr. Sununu and two other advisers were sitting in front of Mr. Bush's desk waiting for the president. 