Rescuers crawled through collapsed homes and shops today looking for more victims of a tornado that carved a 3-mile stretch of destruction, killing 17 people, injuring 463 and leaving 1,000 homeless. He was among those called out to help dig through rubble for survivors or the bodies of the dead. In Huntsville, teams with cranes and floodlights searched for the injured or dead, hampered by wind-whipped rain and temperatures that plummeted overnight from 73 degrees into the 30s. Guy Hunt sent 50 National Guardsmen to help and said he would view damage Friday. His spokesman, Terry Abbott, said aerial surveys indicate the twister hopped along a 25-mile path, much of it straight through Huntsville. Four people were injured, two seriously. _Heavy thunderstorms destroyed at least a dozen homes in Alorton, Ill., killing one person and injuring 20 others, five seriously, authorities said. The tornado struck Huntsville with virtually no warning Wednesday afternoon as the city's streets grew busy with the approach of rush hour. "It was fast," said Lucy Lee Rusk, whose apartment was battered by debris. No children in the school were killed, but about 30 youngsters were in a kindergarten class at the building, and five were reported injured. The roadway was strewn with used bandages and medical gloves left by emergency workers treating the injured. Humana Hospital administrator David Miller said doctors had difficulty reaching the hospital because of blocked roads. Heavy overhead power lines "started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip," Carroll said. "All of these heavy arcing, flashing lines that were just popping and snapping over the top of us.... "There wasn't anything I could do, so I covered my head," Lenhard said. " The downtown Jones Valley Elementary School, the Waterford Square and adjacent Queensbury apartment complexes were reduced to rubble. Kindergarteners were the only pupils left at the school by the time the twister hit. At least two other tornadoes were reported in Alabama, injuring at least three people in addition to the Huntsville total. Near Palmetto, Ga., resident Jeff Bryant said his home at the Sweetbriar Mobile Home Park near Interstate 85 began to vibrate when the twister approached. "It was picking up cars and tossing them like toys off the interstate," he said. 