The man-made inferno will tower over a man-made lagoon with more than four acres of pools, grottoes and waterfalls. In the lobby behind its nine-story, orchid-strewn atrium, a 20,000-gallon aquarium will come alive with sharks, stingrays, angelfish, puffers and other creatures of the deep. It's the most stunning example of Las Vegas's concerted effort to transform itself into a world-famous vacation resort for families as well as gamblers. Now the Mirage and Circus Circus Enterprises Inc.'s $290 million Excalibur are going up. Still other projects that have been announced but not yet started could put expenditures above $3 billion over the next few years. Stephen A. Wynn, who owns 29.4% of Golden Nugget's shares, says the Mirage and other projects will help Las Vegas attract a whole new generation of visitors. If you create a wonderment, if you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it, then they'll come, he says. The projects already under construction will increase Las Vegas's supply of hotel rooms by 11,795, or nearly 20%, to 75,500. This year, by one means of transport or another, more than 18 million people will visit the city. Amid a riot of jousting knights, circus clowns, gold-leaf centurions and creatures of the wild, lesser competitors will fall. The Palace, with its marble fountains and toga parties for high rollers, is already well-known for its Caesarean theme. The Flamingo Hilton, Imperial Palace, Frontier and others are pouring millions of dollars into facelifts, new room towers and casino floor space just to keep up. Golden Nugget, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s first casino client, has borrowed on more than $600 million worth of mortgage notes, mostly sold to private investors by Drexel, to build the Mirage. Other casino owners, Circus Circus among them, are financing their expansion with their own cash and revolving credit lines from local lenders such as First Interstate Bank of Nevada. Last year, the tourists left $3 billion with the area's casinos, nearly 10% more than in 1987. If you build a better mousetrap, it will catch more mice, says Fred Benninger, chairman of MGM Grand. Casinos today offer bowling alleys, water parks, golf courses, tennis courts, lush swimming pools and other diversions, and more such facilities are being designed. For now, however, the naysayers' voices are drowned by the roar of cement mixers and the clanging of construction cranes along the Strip. The ferocious competition probably will drive some poorly managed properties into bankruptcy or new ownership. Some have bought big chunks of Strip property for what may turn into another wave of building. Atlantic City casino owner Donald Trump is scouting the Las Vegas market with an eye toward building an appropriately spectacular place. Even before the huge new projects began, the Strip's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors. Skeptics wonder whether mega-resorts such as the Mirage will be able to squeeze a profit from their cash flow. Bally bought the former MGM Grand hotel-casino from Kirk Kerkorian four years ago. Its parking lot is inconvenient, the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places, and customers still call it the Grand, rather than the Bally Grand. Any hotel-casino without a strong identity will get whacked by the new competition, says Glenn Schaeffer, senior vice president of Circus Circus. If you don't know what you are, bigger won't make you better, he says. The Circus Circus lures them with low room rates, inexpensive buffets and entertainment for children at no extra charge. Its castle, Mr. Schaeffer says, will be the most compelling piece of folk architecture ever built. More rooms aren't the answer for us, says Caesars World chairman Henry Gluck. Other, smaller concerns are also pursuing market niches -- Hawaiian tourists, for example, or the local trade. There's still room for boutique properties, says James Barrett, president of MarCor Resorts Inc. Despite the proliferation of tourist distractions, Las Vegans haven't forgot that gambling is still what the town is all about. 