Exxon also disclosed that the Long Beach-bound tanker actually was involved in two separate accidents that night in pristine Prince William Sound. Meanwhile, winds kicked up around the crippled ship, stirring fears that choppy waters could destabilize the Exxon Valdez and sweep the slick ashore. Wildlife experts were summoned from California to coordinate any efforts to rescue birds and sea otters, whose feathers and fur make them the most vulnerable to oil contamination. Oil-Covered Birds, Otters Biologists already have counted 95 birds and two otters covered with oil but were unable to capture them for cleaning. Steve Cowper declared Prince William Sound a disaster area, freeing state resources for cleanup and paving the way for a federal disaster declaration. Still unexplained is why Third Mate Gregory Cousins was steering the 987-foot vessel through the tricky, iceberg-dotted waters on Friday. The ship then slid about two miles under full power and hit more underwater rocks, Iarossi said. Puts Off Filing Charges We're not going to file any charges until we are done with our investigation, said Coast Guard spokesman Todd Nelson. The Coast Guard may seem slow and plodding at times, but if we file charges, we're going to make them stick, he added. Experts from the International Bird Rescue Center in Berkeley, Calif., set up a rehabilitation center here Sunday in case oiled birds are captured. Otter experts from Hubbs Marine Research Institute at Sea World in San Diego were due to arrive today. Human life and safety is more important, said Pamela Bergmann, the Department of the Interior representative assessing the situation. Another 1 million barrels remain aboard the damaged ship, but no new leakage has been reported. Pumps were being used to siphon the remaining oil into a sister tanker Sunday, an operation expected to take up to a week. Rocks Charted He indicated that the rocks the ship hit were charted and well within range of the Exxon Valdez's navigational equipment. The agency is studying its legal options and may ask the Coast Guard to take over the cleanup from Exxon, she said. RANKING THE EXXON VALDEZ SPILL 11 million gallons that have leaked so far from the Exxon Valdez are dwarfed by some of the record spills around the world: 