MD-82 jet made emergency landings in 1985 and 1986 following the loss of power in one of its two engines. A Northwest spokesman confirmed that the incidents happened, but said they weren't related to Sunday's crash of Flight 255. Though federal investigators were looking into a number of possible causes for the crash, which occurred shortly after takeoff, engine failure appeared to be a likely culprit. Unlike the recent near-misses, the Detroit accident doesn't appear related to air-traffic control problems. Even so, some congressional aides believe there will be a spillover effect, and that all aviation safety issues will now get closer scrutiny. Added a Senate Commerce Committee staff member: Delays and other consumer concerns will end up in the back seat. In Detroit, federal crash inspectors and representatives of United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit, the engine maker, arrived at the accident scene. Officials said that the aircraft's flight recorders, which record cockpit conversations, had been found in wreckage that extended over half a mile. The MD-82 jet, which has a good safety record, is designed to be able to take off and land even if one engine fails. Safety officials wouldn't speculate on whether the plane's heavy load may have contributed to the crash. The extras included six crew members, two babies who were being held by passengers and two Northwest employees riding on two of the plane's jump seats. Late last night, the Associated Press reported that the girl was identified by her grandfather. Her father, mother and brother were passengers on the Northwest airliner and died in the crash. The new rules, proposed last month, will go into effect this fall, FAA officials said. In others, airlines have made changes, based on a Pratt &amp; Whitney service bulletin, to reduce the risk of pin failure. Among other things, the accident has focused attention on its recent service problems as well as discord among its workers. The airline early yesterday denied that its labor troubles may have played a role in the crash. In January, the Federal Bureau of Investigation began investigating incidents of alleged tampering with Northwest planes in Minneapolis. Northwest, a unit of Minneapolis-based NWA Inc., also has had a rash of service problems since its acquisition of Republic Airlines last year. There were reports yesterday that relatives of crash victims being flown in from Phoenix were asked to switch from one Northwest jet to another because of mechanical problems. A Northwest spokesman said the engines involved in those two incidents had since been replaced by other JT8D-200 series engines. The controllers reported that shortly after the jetliner lifted off, it pitched from left to right, according to FAA spokesman John Leyden. Staff members now expect those bills to attract new measures aimed at improving safety. When people get back (from their August recess), they will be looking for an opportunity to do something. He added, We will want to hear a thorough examination of everything that took place with that airplane and what was going on at the airport. In June 1963, a DC-7 operating as a military charter crashed into the Pacific Ocean, killing all 101 people onboard. 