Hoping to defuse criticism that it is not doing its share to oppose Baghdad, Japan said up to $2 billion in aid may be sent to nations most affected by the U.N. embargo on Iraq. "America must stand up to aggression, and we will," said Bush, who added that the U.S. military may remain in the Saudi Arabian desert indefinitely. "I cannot predict just how long it will take to convince Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait," Bush said. More than 150,000 U.S. troops have been sent to the Persian Gulf region to deter a possible Iraqi invasion of Saudi Arabia. Bush's aides said the president would follow his address to Congress with a televised message for the Iraqi people, declaring the world is united against their government's invasion of Kuwait. The report, made available to The Associated Press, said some Eastern European countries also are trying to maintain their military sales to Iraq. But the source, who requested anonymity, said the deal was struck during Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz's visit Sunday to Tehran, the first by a senior Iraqi official since the 1980-88 gulf war. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, meanwhile, met in Moscow with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, two days after the U.S.-Soviet summit that produced a joint demand that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait. During the summit, Bush encouraged Mikhail Gorbachev to withdraw 190 Soviet military specialists from Iraq, where they remain to fulfill contracts. Shevardnadze told the Soviet parliament Tuesday the specialists had not reneged on those contracts for fear it would jeopardize the 5,800 Soviet citizens in Iraq. Evacuees spoke of food shortages in Kuwait, nighttime gunfire and Iraqi roundups of young people suspected of involvement in the resistance. 1. Cheney promised disgruntled lawmakers "a significant increase" in help from Arab nations and other U.S. allies for Operation Desert Shield. "The pressure from abroad is getting so strong," said Hiroyasu Horio, an official with the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Local news reports said the aid would be extended through the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and $600 million would be sent as early as mid-September. On Friday, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady visited Tokyo on a world tour seeking $10.5 billion to help Egypt, Jordan and Turkey. On Monday, Saddam offered developing nations free oil if they would send their tankers to pick it up. Manila said it had already fulfilled its oil requirements, and Namibia said it would not "sell its sovereignty" for Iraqi oil. Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez dismissed Saddam's offer of free oil as a "propaganda ploy." Romania's ambassador to the United States, Virgil Constantinescu, denied that claim Tuesday, calling it "absolutely false and without foundation." 