The long-expected indictment also named Milken's brother, Lowell Milken, and a former Drexel trader, Bruce L. Newberg. Fines Could Be Doubled In addition, the federal racketeering law, known as the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, at least theoretically could subject them to twice that amount in fines. This means each defendant could face up to $3.7 billion in fines on the two RICO charges. Michael Milken faces a maximum jail sentence of about 300 years, with lesser amounts for the other two defendants. John Kissick, formerly head of the firm's corporate finance department in Beverly Hills, has been expected to take Michael Milken's place. The criminal charges result from the biggest criminal securities fraud investigation ever undertaken by the government. Benito Romano, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said this specific investigation is continuing and didn't rule out the possibility that additional individuals may be charged soon. Settlement with the SEC, in turn, would remove the last obstacle to Drexel's carrying out its pledge to plead guilty to six criminal counts and pay $650 million in financial penalties. The 110-page indictment returned Wednesday appears to closely follow the civil charges contained in an SEC lawsuit filed in September against Drexel and the Milkens. One involves transactions with former stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky, who pleaded guilty to a single criminal charge and gave prosecutors the information that touched off the Drexel investigation. The second broad area involves transactions with Princeton/Newport Partners, in which Drexel and Milken allegedly helped Princeton/Newport carry out tax fraud through sham securities trades with Drexel. Although the government could immediately ask a federal judge to freeze the three defendants' personal assets, Romano, the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said he probably will not do that. Expects Assurances Romano said he expects to receive written assurances that assets covering the rest will not be dissipated before a trial is held. According to the indictment, Milken's pay was $123.8 million in 1984 and $135 million in 1985, then more than doubled in 1986 to $294.8 million. The indictment says that, during those years, Milken's personal compensation amounted to between 28% and 44% of the junk bond department's gross revenues. But Romano said that, under the law, each of them could be held jointly and separately liable for the full amount. Arthur L. Liman, one of Milken's main defense lawyers, said in a written statement that Milken will plead not guilty with confidence that in a fair trial he will be acquitted. He added that I have been thrown into this indictment because of a fact in which I take great pride -- I am Michael Milken's brother. It seems like little more than a rehash of what the SEC came out with six months ago, he said. In another statement, two lawyers representing Newberg accused the government of seeking to punish Newberg for refusing to become a prosecution witness by indicting him twice on racketeering charges. The government requested that U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood be assigned to the case, because she is already presiding over the case in which Drexel is expected to plead guilty to six charges. 