I don't know... how it would help with what we're doing. ; 'NASA could never do this'; NASA could never do this, countered Robert Frye, a project consultant and ecologist at the University of Arizona's Environmental Research Laboratory. They are inhabited by 3,800 transplanted species of birds, reptiles, plants and insects.; The eight Biospherians, all single, will electronically monitor their world through a maze of computers in the glitzy command center. The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported that one of Allen's protege's was oilman Bass, Biosphere 2's main financier.; Leader was a 'tyrant'; Laurence Veysey, a retired history professor from the University of California, Santa Cruz, who studied the commune in 1971, remembers Allen as a tyrant given to rages. Veysey recalls seeing biosphere written on a dining-room wall of the New Mexico commune, Synergia Ranch.; They were a very secretive group, said Veysey, who devoted 100 pages to the ranch in a book on communes. It was hard to figure out what they were up to. ; In the years since the commune disbanded, Allen's vision and Bass's deep pockets have funded ecological ventures from Katmandu to France to western Australia. Several of Biosphere 2's leaders have unaccredited degrees from the institute.; Institute non-existent; A Canadian television documentary last year went looking for the institute and found only an office over a cafe and art gallery.; Allen and Bass could not be reached for comment. There have been so many people with Biosphere 2 who never had anything to do with John Allen 20 years ago. ; During construction, Biosphere 2 recruited outside consultants from such reputable institutions as Yale University and the Smithsonian, Dyhr said. Some later recanted their criticisms, saying they were warned by Biosphere representatives they could be sued for libel.; Even now, many mainstream scientists wonder what Biosphere 2 will accomplish.; Its makers contend they have made an ecological system out of nothing. And if they survive two years, what will Biospherians learn, other than how to live in a gigantic terrarium?; Naivety suggested; I think they went into this rather naively, said Frank Salisbury, a plant physiologist at Utah State University. 