JEZERSKO, Yugoslavia -- On Wednesday, the Slovene soldiers manning this border post raised a new flag to mark Slovenia's independence from Yugoslavia. Yesterday, under artillery fire from the federal army, they waved a white flag and surrendered as Yugoslavia lurched closer to civil war. Accompanied by tanks, jet fighters, helicopters, the regular troops, including paratroopers, battled Slovene militiamen across the breakaway republic. They surrounded the airport near Ljubljana, Slovenia's capital, and retook Slovenia's main border crossings with Austria, Italy and Hungary, effectively cutting off international traffic. Reuters news service reported from Ljubljana that thousands of local defense forces were patrolling with automatic weapons. Outside the Slovene capital, government armored vehicles smashed through barricades and road blocks, leaving a trail of twisted metal, flattened cars and shattered glass. In Croatia, the army moved into areas where fighting erupted between Croats and minority Serbs, Yugoslavia's two largest nationalities and historic rivals. The first shooting between the federal army and the militias occurred here, in the mountains that mark the border with Austria. Throughout the morning, federal soldiers, some bearing bazookas, fanned out in the woods surrounding the Slovenia customs house. The scene was like something out of the U.S. Civil War, where civilians gathered for picnics to watch the early battles. If we want our freedom, we will now have to defend it. Politically, the two republics' declarations of independence have been ignored by the rest of the world, which supports a united Yugoslavia. Mr. Baker and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater had suggested to reporters Wednesday that the breakaway republics be granted greater autonomy and sovereignty within a united Yugoslavia. The federal army, dominated by Serbs, has long warned that it won't stand by while the country disintegrates. And on Tuesday night, after the two republics declared their independence, the federal parliament called on the army to intervene. The independence declarations came after months of unsuccessful negotiations among the leaders of the six republics over the post-Cold War shape of Yugoslavia. The Communist leadership of Serbia, Yugoslavia's largest republic, insists on strong central control from Belgrade, the capital of both Serbia and Yugoslavia. They worry that the 600,000 Serbs living in Croatia (about 11% of that republic's population) will be discriminated against by the Croatian government. Together, Slovenia, with two million people, and Croatia, with five million, supply nearly two-thirds of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange and about half of the country's gross national product. 