Cotton, which thrived last month in the hot, humid weather, is expected to increase from last year. That matched the low 1983 reading, when sharp cutbacks in government acreage programs, along with drought, reduced crop production sharply. Assistant Secretary Ewen M. Wilson, the department's chief economist, said the drought may add 1 percent to the cost of food this year, 2 percent next year. Fortunately, it appears we will have enough stocks to make it through this marketing year." The USDA's grim news came hours after President Reagan on Thursday signed a $3.9 billion disaster relief bill aimed at helping drought-stricken farmers recover. But those projections were revised downward a month ago to 5.2 billion bushels, assuming farmers got normal weather the remainder of the season. The soybean harvest was estimated at 1.47 billion bushels, down 23 percent from 1.9 billion bushels produced last year. Prospects last spring called for about 1.88 billion bushels, and the July projection was 1.65 billion bushels. Production of all wheat was indicated at 1.82 billion bushels, down 13 percent from 2.1 billion produced in 1987. The July projection was 1.84 billion bushels The wheat total included winter wheat planted last fall, which barely stayed ahead of the drought. Later plantings of durum and other spring wheat varieties were brutalized by heat and dryness. Durum was estimated at 54.6 million bushels, down 41 percent from last year's harvest, and other spring wheat was shown at 212 million bushels, down 53 percent from 1987. Wilson said USDA experts "continue to believe that the drought will add only one percentage point" to consumer food prices this year. Before the heat and dry weather, USDA had expected a 1988 food price hike of 2 percent to 4 percent. "Our figures here today would indicate that food production in other countries has not been cut that much," he said. "The drought, as you can see, is still basically with us throughout the entire United States," Strommen said. 