Mr Philip Tose, the maverick Hong Kong financier, once offered Britain's Tory party Pounds 5m to remove Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor. With the battle over electoral reform ended, and less than 1,000 days to go before the handover on June 30 1997, the die is cast. And most people in the colony believe there is little Britain can do by way of new initiatives. Optimists suggest that Chinese officials are beginning to realise that they need British co-operation. 'Mr Patten is the governor and the representative of the Hong Kong British government,' says one senior Chinese official in Hong Kong. Encouragement is also taken from reports that Mr Qian Qichen, China's foreign minister, is considering a visit to Britain next year. But Hong Kong's passage from British colony to a 'special administrative region' of China still seems likely to be dogged by controversy. 'What I hope is that we will make progress in other areas which could avoid arguments becoming too poisonous and seeping into everything.' Mr Lee says that, 'in general, Hong Kong people are still fearful of the Communist party'. This is especially so among senior civil servants who will have most day-to-day contact with representatives of the new sovereign power after 1997. Many have come into close contact with mainland officials and been subjected to humiliating treatment. 'The ones below... we hope these civil servants will stay,' says one official. Take school text books, which have recently emerged as an issue because some pro-Beijing figures in Hong Kong do not believe that the current texts used in schools are sufficiently 'patriotic'. Already some publishers have said they may withdraw from the textbook market. Given the high status accorded to education in Chinese society this is a potentially explosive issue for Beijing if not handled sensitively. After the dispute on electoral reform, Beijing announced that it would dismiss the 1995 LegCo once China resumed sovereignty of Hong Kong, and replace it with a provisional legislature. It seems likely that the committee to which Mr Tsang belongs, the preliminary working committee, will become the 1996 preparatory committee. That body may well elect from among itself the 60 members of the provisional legislature. A strong showing by Hong Kong's pro-democracy groups, led by Mr Martin Lee's Democratic party, will be seen as a protest vote against Beijing. But a good showing by Beijing's own supporters will create another problem: China would then have to decide whether to accept an elected council favourable to its point of view. His critics go much further, suggesting that there is little chance of any meaningful dialogue while Mr Patten occupies government house. Britain used such ordinances to control Hong Kong but does not want to leave them on the statute books for the incoming regime. There is similar wariness among Chinese officials about the possibility that Britain may lay down financial obligations which only have to be met after 1997. One Chinese banker says: 'Hong Kong will become less free; more like Singapore. In Mrs Wu's view: 'There is no absolute guarantee for Hong Kong that the 1984 Sino-British joint declaration will be met. 