There was the bluster, the bragging, the promise of big things to come. This scene, which played out two weeks ago in Italy, was familiar, with one exception. The new element was the pervasive skepticism that now attends Johnson's boasts. Overweening confidence among world class athletes is well accepted -- even expected. However, part of the expectation includes the understanding that the athlete can back up the boasts. Johnson was also suspended from competition for two years; that suspension ends today. And so the questions begin: What can Johnson do when not assisted by performance-enhancing drugs? You hear grumblings among media types and in some circles of the sport, but you have to give the guy the benefit of the doubt. When this happened, it was a bitter disappointment for everyone in the sport to acknowledge that the No. With the accolades cast upon him in the previous years, people were resentful. They hope the guy comes back clean and fast. It is this apparent contradiction that Ben Johnson must overcome in his comeback. Charlie Francis, who coached Johnson for 12 years, estimated that steroids made Johnson faster by one meter. By strengthening training, I will be 100% by January. I have decided to start again to show everybody I'm still the best. Al Franken, promoter of the Sunkist Invitational, is close to signing Johnson for his Jan. You'll get people who don't care about track, and you may attract back people who have quit coming to track. Ben sort of transcends the sport, and, God knows, we need someone to transcend the sport. But American meet directors say they can't pay that kind of money, especially for an unproven runner. But how well he's running will determine his value. You're only as good as your last race, and the fans know that. Howard Schmertz of the Millrose Games in New York has an interest in Johnson, but perhaps not the budget. If you give him $10,000 and people are beating him, you could have problems. How many heavy hitters can a meet afford? he said. There are very few secrets among athletes, especially when there's X dollars given to one athlete. Hamilton promoter Gaines has heard it before, and makes no apology for paying Johnson more than other athletes. Right now, I can't think of anybody who would arouse as much interest as Ben Johnson. I've had that thought myself, paying him that much money, he said. He probably thinks he can be paid more because of the notoriety. Are they going to treat him as someone who has paid his penalty and now he's clean? Will Kern, meet director for the Times Indoor Games, hesitates at considering it a moral issue. It's kind of perplexing, isn't it?, Kern said. I can't say that it's wrong, especially when deep down I know Johnson's not the only one who's ever taken drugs. One thing that may not happen is a much-discussed lucrative match race between Johnson and Lewis. A NEW CAST Johnson, 28, has passed at least four drug tests during his suspension. Futerman limits Johnson's contact with the media, saying Ben has said all he has to say. Similarly, Johnson was erased from track and field's record books. Even though Johnson admitted to having taken drugs since 1981, the rule carries a six-year statue of limitations. Already gone was the 9.79 race from the Olympics. Meet promoters are willing to pay to find out. I don't know, but people are willing to find out. 