A lobbyist for former Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. said Friday that moments after he first met Sen. Grogan, a surprise witness who testified under a limited grant of immunity from prosecution, said there was never a trade-off between Keating's contributions and his request for assistance. He provided important new details of Cranston's close alliance with Keating and contradicted earlier testimony by Cranston aides Joy Jacobson and Carolyn D. Jordan. Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz.), John McCain (R-Ariz.) and John Glenn (D-Ohio) -- improperly assisted Keating in exchange for contributions. Their intervention with federal regulators allegedly delayed the government takeover of Lincoln, contributing to losses of $2 billion by the federally insured thrift. He said Cranston promptly pulled a 3x5 card from his pocket, saying: I've been very good to the savings and loans. He said she repeated Cranston's contention that he had been very supportive of California thrifts and asked him if Keating would raise money for the senator. In April, 1985, as a result of Cranston's appeal for funds, Keating collected $15,000 in checks from his employees for the California senator. At the same time, Grogan emphasized that Keating did not always have Cranston's support for his proposals. He said contributions could buy him access to a senator, but the money provided no guarantee that the senator would do the bidding of a contributor. Cranston, whom I believe we gave the most money to, there were several times specifically when I went to his office and asked him, on behalf of Mr. Keating, to take action. And this was after tremendous amounts of money had been raised for him. He said that Keating, who eventually developed a warm friendship with Cranston, usually waited until the end of his meetings with the senator to discuss contributions. As Grogan explained it: Normally as we were leaving, either Mr. Keating would say, 'Is there any way I can help you, senator? There was never an occasion where Mr. Keating said, 'If you do this for me, I will raise X-amount of dollars for you.' She asked him whether Cranston could get a personal loan for his reelection campaign from Lincoln. Cranston has previously acknowledged that both contributions and assistance for Lincoln were discussed at the dinner. Grogan could not remember any discussion of specific amounts of money that Keating would contribute to the voter registration effort. Jordan told the committee she acted entirely on her own initiative, but Grogan said she was acting on his request. Grogan also contradicted Riegle's statement that he did not arrange meetings between the five senators and federal regulators in early April, 1987. These meetings have been a central focus of the so-called Keating Five case because the regulators alleged that they were asked improperly by the senators to go easy on Lincoln. 