The Australian Government and public, however, gave him and his constitutional package the cold shoulder and many media units and Chinese organizations even severely criticized him. Only one or two government officers, who do not know anything about the Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, supported him verbally. When commenting on this, a Chinese official pointed out: While Patten is playing the international card, it is extremely inappropriate for Australian Government officials to make irresponsible remarks. Does this not clearly show that China's sovereignty over Hong Kong was evaded or even denied? The Chinese nation has gone through a good deal, so the Chinese people value the country's sovereignty all the more. To echo this assertion, British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said in both Singapore and Jakarta last July that Hong Kong had become a political city. How can Patten be compared with the Chinese Government where the understanding of Hong Kong's international status and its importance are concerned. Undoubtedly, a city's international status and functions are entirely different from the issue of to which country it belongs. Hong Kong is ranked among the biggest international cities and has become one of the international economic, trade, financial, and shipping centers but this will never change the fact that it is part of Chinese territory. The same is ture of New York, Paris, and Tokyo: They are international big cities but nobody can deny that they belong to the United States, France, and Japan respectively. At the beginning they said the three treaties remain effective, later they suggested exchanging sovereignty for administrative power, and then they proposed Sino- British joint administration. All these showed their reluctance to give up colonial rule and return Hong Kong to China. Former British Prime Minister Mrs Thatcher laid bare in her memoirs Britain's three-step strategy for handling the Hong Kong issue. Before the Chinese people, who had risen to their feet, the first two steps have gone to the wall, so they are now stepping up implementation of the third step by taking advantage of their administrative power. This is exactly what is meant by the Chinese saying: He who has come, has come with ill intent, certainly not on virtue bent. According to Percy Cradock's memoirs, Mrs Thatcher once spoke of the need to appoint a politician as the last Hong Kong governor. If anyone says Mr Patten has loafed around and wandered about doing nothing since he arrived in Hong Kong, this is unfair. Over the last two years, making nothing of the hardships, he has traveled to many countries to enlist support for his constitutional package in a move to internationalize the Hong Kong issue. During his recent trip to Australia, apart from saying that Hong Kong was an international asset, he claimed that for various countries to support Hong Kong in expanding democracy is not equivalent to interfering in China's internal affairs. 