Charles H. Keating Jr. doesn't flinch when asked if his financial support of politicians is intended to influence them to take up his cause. I want to say in the most forceful way I can, I certainly hope so, Keating recently proclaimed. As evidence, they cite donations of about $300,000 to five U.S. senators who went to bat in April, 1987, for Keating in two unusual private meetings with savings and loan regulators. Keating supplemented Lincoln's traditional home loans with investments in high-yield securities and riskier real estate ventures. Federal regulators, outraged by losses at similar S&amp;Ls across the country, spent much of the last three years poring over the books of Lincoln and American Continental. On April 13, apparently sensing an imminent showdown, American Continental filed its bankruptcy petition. The next day, federal regulators seized Lincoln, claiming that Keating and American Continental were operating the S&amp;L in an unsafe and unsound manner. The recipients of contributions from Keating's circle include liberal Democrats like Cranston and former presidential hopeful Walter Mondale. Orrin Hatch of Utah, who shares Keating's brand of staunch conservatism. For Keating, campaign contributions are one way that the American political system is made more responsive to its constituents. We support and campaign for the political leaders we believe will represent the best of American virtues, he told reporters last month. In the last five years, state and federal campaign records show: * More than $100,000 has gone to Sen. The largest amount, more than $70,000, was given to the Senate panel's current chairman, Donald W. Riegle Jr. (D-Ga.), $16,000; Frank Annunzio (D-Ill.), $1,000; Stephen L. Neal (D-N.C.), $1,000, and Fernand J. St Germain (D-R.I.), $500. * At the California Statehouse, where gubernatorial appointees oversee Lincoln operations, Keating money has added $41,000 to Gov. George Deukmejian's campaign coffers in the last four years. * Keating and associates pumped $80,000 into the California Republican Party last fall alone. Such soft donations allow contributors to get around federal individual contribution limits of $1,000 per candidate per election. But from my background, to do business (throughout) America, you need to be politically aware. Doesn't Recall Mondale Gift With so much money flowing to so many candidates over so many years, Keating apparently cannot keep track of the politicians who benefited from his fund-raising efforts. He does not recall -- and acted surprised when reminded -- that he and his family gave $2,500 to Mondale's 1984 presidential campaign. Likewise, four years later, Keating did not contribute to President George Bush's campaign, although American Continental gave $80,000 to the California Republican Party. This money, which does not come under federal or state contribution limitations, was used for voter-registration and get-out-the-vote efforts that benefited Bush. After Riegle stopped by for a quick visit in March, 1987, she contributed $500 to his campaign. No Pressure Both former employees said their gift-giving was entirely discretionary, as Karbo put it. Although the donors may have reached independent decisions, they tended to reach them at the same time. For example, 51 donations from Keating, family members and associates were made to McCain on the same day: March 17, 1986. But, Zelman noted, when the numbers get real large, there's a question of whether individuals are coerced or even encouraged to contribute. But critics contend that Keating has simply used donated dollars to get politicians to do his bidding. A fund-raiser on March 23, 1987, netted Riegle more than $70,000, which Riegle returned a year later after Keating's contributions became a public issue. Riegle's closest aide, Kevin Gottlieb, said the senator attended only at the written request of two colleagues, DeConcini and McCain. Never before, top regulators say, had they seen an S&amp;L owner who had enough political pull to get five U.S. senators to meet with federal examiners about a problem. At an earlier meeting, Cranston, McCain, DeConcini and Glenn had met with Edwin J. Gray, head of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Deny Impropriety The senators or their aides denied that any deal was offered or discussed. Gottlieb said Riegle returned the money in March, 1988, only because local papers had written about it and the senator did not want it to become a campaign issue. An individual does not suddenly become ineligible for any kind of constituent help because he's made a political contribution, Maynes said. 