Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) has said that the Senate is entitled to a direct, categorical answer on Judge Thomas's stance on abortion, and on Roe v. Thurgood Marshall's example makes it plain, though, that Mr. Thomas may refuse to give that categorical answer. During the Marshall hearings in 1967, the issue of the day was not abortion but crime, and the most controversial case was Miranda v. John L. McClellan (D., Ark.) pressed Mr. Marshall to reveal his opinion of the case. From all the hearings I have read about, it has been considered and recognized as improper for a nominee to a judgeship to comment on a case he will have to pass on. But Mr. Marshall held firm, stating that future cases would be related to interpretations of Miranda, and that the issue of crime was still very controversial. Sam Ervin (D., N.C.) attempted to get Mr. Marshall to discuss the case law that preceded Miranda, in much the same way that Sen. Joe Biden (D., Del.) attempted to persuade Judge Souter to comment on the right of privacy at issue in the abortion cases, by way of Griswold v. In the end, Mr. Marshall would comment only on such long-decided cases as the Gibbons v. Ogden case of 1824, which concerned issues of such vintage that they were no longer controversial. Some of Mr. Thomas's detractors have openly worried that he seems too distant from his origins in the segregated South. Eleanor Holmes Norton, delegate to Congress from the District of Columbia, said that she hoped he would bring to the bench his personal experience as a poor black man. Harvard Law School's Derrick Bell fears that Mr. Thomas would look black but think white. But such personal experiences are irrelevant to the work of a justice of the Supreme Court, according to Thurgood Marshall. Paul Simon (D., Ill.) for a nominee with fire in the belly. Justices shall not use their personal views, and indeed, they take an oath not to do so. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), whose primary contribution to the Marshall hearings was elucidating the normative guidelines for senators. Kennedy's view that only the professional background of a nominee was relevant for senatorial consideration, not his substantive views. Hruska had received letters stating that Mr. Marshall was too liberal for the Supreme Court, that he would upset the balance between liberals and conservatives. Several other issues were brought up during the Marshall hearings that have a bearing on Judge Thomas's case. Committee Chairman James Eastland (D., Miss.) raised this issue, but only to allow Mr. Marshall to clarify the facts, and to state that he was not a communist. 