Coast Guard Commandant Paul A. Yost on Tuesday attacked Exxon's plan to clean up the Alaskan oil spill. Yost, the top federal official tracking the environmental disaster, said Exxon's plan was poorly drafted and lacking in specifics. In Washington, consumer activist Ralph Nader said Exxon "should not be allowed to forget" the spill and that a boycott would send the oil giant a message. He and others blasted Exxon for failing to be prepared for the spill and not rapidly responding to the accident that fouled hundreds of miles of Alaska's coast. In Anchorage, about 400 chanting and sign-waving protesters rallied in front of Exxon's Alaskan headquarters to urge a consumer boycott. J. Edward Surette Jr., executive director of the Bay State Gasoline Retailers Association in Billerica, Mass., said it was too early to assess the boycott's impact. Exxon spokeswoman Sarah Johnson said 10,000 credit cards out of 7 million have been cut up and returned to the company since the spill. The oil company's cleanup strategy must gain Yost's approval before being put into effect. "Some beaches are going to be sparkling, some beaches are going to be far from sparkling." Exxon's 60-page, two-part revised strategy to cleanse some 364 miles of Alaska's coastline of the oil spilled March 24 by the tanker Exxon Valdez was released Monday. They're one big blob of oil," said Ray Bane, superintendent of Katmai National Park, about 275 miles southwest of Valdez. Oil has tainted the coast at least as far as Chignik, 525 miles southwest of Valdez. But Bill Lamoreaux, the ranking state environmental officer at the spill, said the laws would not be relaxed. "The general feeling is that we would expect that they would comply with the environmental laws," Lamoreaux said. Lamoreaux said, "When we talk about 'light oiling,' it doesn't mean it won't have a devastating effect on wildlife." James Exon and Bob Kerrey, both Nebraska Democrats, called on U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to investigate potential price gouging by the oil industry. 