Beijing, February 26 (XINHUA) -- The recent passage of Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's partial electoral bill by its Legislative Council (Legco) was not accidental, but long premeditated. Over the past two days, the British side also published a white paper and unilaterally made public the contents of last year's 17 rounds of Sino-British talks on the arrangements for the 1994-1995 elections in Hong Kong. These actions fully show that the British side has closed the door of negotiations between the two sides and is finally taking a road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system. Then Britain, under all sorts of pressure, agreed to hold talks with China in April last year on the arrangements for elections for 1994/1995 in Hong Kong. Even so, China made it clear repeatedly that for the Chinese side the door for negotiations was open, with the prerequisite that the British side must withdraw the submitted partial bill from the Legco. Recently, Patten made a special trip to Australia and tried his best to win support from outside Hong Kong for the passage and the implementation of his political bill. Shortly after Patten returned to Hong Kong at the end of his trip to Australia on February 19, his partial electoral bill was passed by the Legislative Council. Over the past year or more, Patten has directed so many farces which converged so closely that it is clear that what he did was carefully arranged and long premeditated. The British side time and again said that Patten's political bill was aimed at promoting Hong Kong's prosperity and stability and completely considered the aspirations of the Hong Kong residents. It is known to all that to maintain Hong Kong's prosperity and stability and to ensure its smooth transition in 1997 are in the fundamental interests of the Hong Kong residents. The Basic Law was formulated after more than four years' discussions and drafting, and fully absorbing opinions of the Hong Kong residents. However, Patten hurriedly put forward his political reform bill less than three months after he began to serve as Hong Kong governor, without absorbing opinions from the Hong Kong residents. More serious was that, despite strong appeals from Hong Kong residents for the settlement of the electoral arrangements through talks, the political reform bill submitted by Patten was passed. 