So, you say, what will happen when they lock four men and four women inside this fancy fish bowl for two years and watch 'em grow alfalfa sprouts and rice? How, indeed, are eight "biospherians" going to fare testing the completely sealed compound with five adjacent but contrasting environments, called biomes, as well as an intensive agricultural complex, to duplicate the Earth's ecology? How are they going to react in shepherding 3,800 species of plants and animals that will provide food and air while all wastes are recycled within Biosphere II? The biospherians will be physically separated from the outside world, or Biosphere I, but they will not be isolated, said John Rummel, a life sciences physician at NASA. They'll have the latest gadgets, from video teleconferencing and worldwide phone contact to television, VCRs and computers in their plush apartment complex and office-laboratory area. And they will have unusual options if they want to get away from each other. Experiments in long-term situations where small groups of people live in harsh climatic or environmental extremes, such as the in Antarctica or underwater, usually are viewed in terms of "isolation, confinement, deprivation and risk," Connors said. Roy Walford, a pathologist, nutrition specialist and the only physician seeking one of the eight slots, says he thinks the biggest problem may be overwork. A community and rural health family practitioner associated with the University of Arizona who has developed a close relationship with the candidates will be among those watching from the outside. Walford and Biosphere spokeswoman Kathleen Dyhr, also hoping to make the crew, said each candidate has worked on the project for at least three years. Creativity, spontaneity, withdrawal, unexpected irritability, eating patterns and general health will be watched, but the best sensors likely will be the crew members themselves. "Mine has always been that it's unlikely, because I think people tend to act as crews when they get in an experience that is prolonged," Connors said. "I would suspect that they would get into a familial relationship rather than a couples relationship... more like siblings act," she said. "Let's just put it this way," Ms. Dyhr said, "there's nothing really that a corporation can do about what their employees do after 5 o'clock. The Biosphere's purpose is "not to test interpersonal relations," but to test "whether they can reproduce the Earth's atmosphere by a mixture of plants, animals and bacteria," Bechtel said. 