The way Christopher Patten talked last year, you would have thought he were in Britain. If the Chinese come up with their own agenda, what must it contain that would invalidate the British position? When Hong Kong fought for democracy in the 1980's, Xu Jiatun [6079 1367 1470] tried countering Hong Kong's capitalist primary democracy with advanced socialist democracy. Subsequently China rejected Hong Kong's political demands by questioning their timetable. 2. In contrast to his past arrogance and wilfulness, Patten now says, I have grown to like Hong Kong more and more. (Section 190) After the governor presented his first annual report to the Legislative Council last year, the Chinese authorities initially took a heavy-handed approach. It was so severe and threatening that it gave the impression China was prepared for mutual destruction, with Britain, Hong Kong, and itself all going down the tube. At the time the Chinese could convincingly attack Patten for his overbearing ways, arrogant, domineering, stubborn, and intractable. He may still be impenetrably thick-headed, but he has mellowed considerably and become more practical. Yet if they persist in their shrill ways, they may lose points. The report also contains endless comparisons with Britain, Australia, and the Netherlands, countries which the local people are familiar with. Having inherited the tradition of the Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China, the Chinese Communists have always considered Hong Kong alien land. During the anti-Patten campaign last year, the Chinese opposed everything that was associated with Patten. In so doing, however, they in effect repudiated many of the values of the system of Hong Kong. If China continues its negative attitude toward Hong Kong, what sort of price will it have to pay? Would praising Hong Kong send a wrong message to the local people, misleading them into thinking that China would compromise with Patten and go along with him? Under Patten's original proposal, the committee was to be made up of popularly elected district representatives (in its entirety or to a large extent). Nevertheless, Patten sticks by his original plan to have the 400 members of the electoral committee be chosen through election. Moreover, this concession comes with strings attached; the proposal that elected representatives be allowed to serve out their terms beyond 1997 (the through train concept) is part and parcel of his overall plan. Britain and China reopened negotiations in April mainly because public opinion forced them back to the conference table. They may not reach an agreement if they negotiate, but they are bound to lose if they don't even talk. However, if they give way, they would be handing a victory to Patten. It has now been scaled back to 1 million, still significantly more than the 200,000-300,000 people who would have been eligible to cast votes for the original 21 functional seats. Then came the 4 June tragedy of 1989 and the big victories scored by democratic groups in direct Legislative Council elections in 1991. Since the controversy was triggered off by China's plan to scrap the through train proposal, would it make concessions on this very issue? 5. Patten's second annual report to the Legislative Council was an honest self-examination of his past commitments regarding the people's livelihood and the work that had been done. He talked about things he had accomplished and things he had not, laying it all out in an honest, earnest, and realistic way. One year after arriving in Hong Kong, Patten has certainly commanded much authority with his solid political ideas. During the subsequent question period, Legislative Council members lined up to point out the errors in his report. Their exchange, complete with questions, answers, charges, and explanations, was democracy in action, live. Public statements by Chinese officials to this date still contain a lot of empty bureaucratic gobbledygook, devoid of a spirit of seeking truth from facts. They always lecture the masses on the omnipotence, all-knowingness, invincibility, infallibility, and greatness of government, instead of talking about self-restraint, self-discipline, and self-control. Or should they take a leaf from Patten's book and try to communicate with the masses using similar methods? After the June 4 incident, Deng Xiaoping raised a lot of expectations when he said that he would get several practical things done. In the future, bridges of the concrete and steel variety will be built to link the two together. Sino-Hong Kong relations mean China learning from Hong Kong's value system and success story and Hong Kong drawing support form China's strengths. China has always looked at Hong Kong unilaterally from top to bottom, demanding that it fall in line with China and not the other way round. Nor do the Chinese allow such consideration; mention differences between the two systems and they cry abetting, sowing discord, setting one party against another. A unilateral emphasis on China's sovereignty would result in integration of a regressive type, meaning that an advanced Hong Kong would have to reach down to accommodate a backward China. How to define Sino-Hong Kong relations down to the details is a major challenge facing Hong Kong in the future. These expectations do not constitute a threat to China now and will not do so in the future. We all know what the problem is: The failure by the Chinese authorities to see what Patten and others have been able to see. 