Between the invasion of Kuwait last August and the end of the Gulf war, many brave souls inside and outside the U.S. government worried about clever stratagems that Saddam Hussein might employ to defeat the U.S. What if he suddenly withdrew from Kuwait to save his huge army and then built nuclear weapons -- as Lenin saved his Bolshevik regime by surrendering a third of Russia to the Germans in the Brest-Litovsk treaty? Well, Saddam Hussein may be twice as brutal as Lenin, but he is only one-tenth as smart. Now, for the coming final round in Bush vs. Saddam, I certainly wouldn't place my bets on the half-witted Butcher of Baghdad. To be sure, many critics now fear President Bush has walked away from this final round, leaving Iraq a vast disaster area, like an abandoned Chernobyl reactor, and condemning Kurds and Shiites to choose between permanent refugee camps, prison or death. In an hour-long speech on March 16, he praised political pluralism, democracy and Iraq's future contribution to stability in the Middle East. It is most implausible that Saddam Hussein could survive as Iraq's dictator and comply with these terms. We should expect unexplained disappearances of U.N. arms control inspectors, crashes (blamed on Kurds) of U.N. helicopters looking for hidden chemical weapons, and the killing of thousands of Iraqi soldiers, scientists and technicians who might reveal the location of prohibited weaponry. Since Mr. Bush has just succeeded in turning the U.N. into a useful instrument for enhancing world order, he can't let Saddam Hussein steal his success. Nearly all suggestions for the Arab-Israeli conflict call for territorial concessions by Israel in exchange for internationally guaranteed security arrangements -- the territory for peace principle to which the president referred. Since the U.S. achieved total military dominance over the Iraqi forces and now plays a leading role in the U.N., the conditions for enforcing U.N. prohibitions on armaments are optimal. Senior administration officials are saying that the Desert Storm victory opened a window of opportunity for U.S. peace efforts in the Arab-Israeli conflict. Five weeks ago, in his triumphant speech to Congress, President Bush said that our commitment to peace in the Middle East does not end with the liberation of Kuwait. 