I've said many times, and I will repeat right now, our only object is to oppose the invasion ordered by Saddam Hussein. 2, your leadership made its decision to invade, an unprovoked attack on a small nation that posed no threat to your own. Twenty-seven states, rich and poor, Arab, Muslim, Asian and African, have answered the call of Saudi Arabia and free Kuwait and sent forces to the gulf region to defend against Iraq. Today, opposed by world opinion, Iraq stands isolated and alone. You've borne untold suffering and hardship during eight long years of war with Iran. Now, once again, Iraq finds itself on the brink of war. Saddam Hussein has told you that Iraqi troops were invited into Kuwait. Your own returning soldiers will tell you the Kuwaitis are fighting valiantly in any way they can. Never before has world opinion been so solidly united against aggression. Nor, until the invasion of Kuwait, has the United States been opposed to Iraq. Saddam Hussein tells you the occupation of Kuwait will benefit the poorer nations of the world. Because of Iraq's aggression, hundreds of thousands of innocent foreign workers are fleeing Kuwait and Iraq. But even worse, others are being held hostage in Iraq and Kuwait. I do not want to add to the suffering of the people of Iraq. Perhaps your leaders do not appreciate the strength of the forces united against them. But there are times when a country, when all countries who value the principles of sovereignty and independence, must stand against aggression. As Americans, we're slow to raise our hand in anger and eager to explore every peaceful means of settling our disputes. But while those actions have brought us to the brink of conflict, war is not inevitable. It is still possible to bring this crisis to a peaceful end. When we stand with Kuwait against aggression, we stand for a principle well understood in the Arab world. God forbid, if Iraq should deviate from the right path, we would want Arabs to send their armies to put things right. Today, two years later, Saddam has invaded and occupied a member of the United Nations and the Arab League. 