According to one writer, He said no to cabinet secretaries and to congressmen, to journalists and to job-hunters; he said no short and sharp without troubling to be polite about it; and so he would come to be warmly detested on the Hill, in the National Press Club, at Republican National Headquarters and across the country. And his improprieties, when they were revealed, shocked the nation and rocked the administration to its very foundations. And he wasn't even named John Sununu.; But the rise and fall of Sherman Adams, President Eisenhower's powerful chief-of-staff, is more than an interesting political doppleganger to the travails of his lineal heir, John Sununu. It was then that Eisenhower's top lieutenants came to Adams and asked him to become their candidate's floor manager.; The 1952 Republican convention was the last national convention to go beyond one ballot. Without Sununu, the chances are very good that the current president of the United States would not be named George Bush.; In February 1988, a reeling Bush campaign limped into New Hampshire after finishing a near-fatal third in the Iowa caucus. Don't you see how much good I'm going to do for the next president of the United States? ; And true to his words, Sununu crafted an attack campaign that painted Bush's chief rival, Bob Dole, as a closet tax and spend liberal. That ploy, plus a computerized get-out-the-vote campaign, crafted by Sununu on his own spreadsheet program, did the trick, and the rest is history.; Unlike Sherman Adams, John Sununu could not be mistaken for a rock-ribbed Granite Stater. According to Concord Monitor editor Mike Pride, Sununu did well; he fell into an easy time to be governor. ; Sununu was re-elected twice and gained a reputation as an activist governor.; He also developed a propensity for the excesses that would prove so costly in Washington. Continuing the staff system that had proven itself during the war, Adams noted that Eisenhower simply expected me to manage a staff that would boil down, simplify and expedite the urgent business that had to be brought to his attention. And when really pressed about why he kept Adams on, Eisenhower wailed at a press conference, I need him. ; In 1958, an Eisenhower administration without Sherman Adams was unthinkable. So when, in September 1958, Republicans were badly beaten in elections in Maine, and campaign contributions began to dry up, the pressure on Eisenhower to do something grew enormous. Instead, he delegated Vice President Nixon and the chair of the Republican Party to visit Adams.; Ever the good soldier, Adams finally listened, and in late September quit. He might question if his strange, parochial antics may just provide the kind of ammunition in 1992 that the similarly alien behavior of Sherman Adams did 34 years before. 