Inside a small motor home, Joanne Pierluissi raised her sleeve as nurse Mary Perez inserted a needle into the vein above her forearm, drawing blood into a tube for a diabetes test. As her daughters watched, Pierluissi, 24, said it was for them, as much as for herself, that she agreed to be tested for the deadly killer of Hispanics. Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes, but it most prevalent among minorities, especially Native Americans, blacks and Hispanics. More than 150,000 Americans die from diabetes each year; another 150,000 deaths are diabetes-related, according to the American Diabetes Association. San Antonio, the nation's ninth largest city, with a population that is 50 percent Hispanic, is becoming the base for diabetes studies. Stern said family studies of diabetic patients are brining him closer to finding the gene that triggers the disease, and to a screening test. (AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> Aly El-Shiekh envisions astronauts on a three-year trip to Mars "knitting" themselves a space station using ceramic fibers that can be braided into panels, beams, boxes and practically any other shape. Such fibers, bonded with epoxy, also will form heat shields and many of the parts in the vessel that carries people to Mars. While much of his work relates to the Mars Mission Research Center here, El-Shiekh sees a big future for composite materials like ceramic fibers. "The day may very well come when you are driving around with car engine parts of ceramic fiber," he said, adding that the vibration-damping properties of the materials also would make them good for torsion bars in cars. The fibers, including Kevlar now used to make bulletproof vests, also could be used to make some body parts, and El-Shiekh is working with Duke University researchers on ceramic "stents," collapsible braces for arteries. "The possibilities are limitless." said El-Shiekh, who can produce shapes ranging from hollow cubes to panels that have openings for wiring and conduits already braided into them. 