A controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent demonstrators they are arresting. They dig their knuckles into protesters' necks, and torque martial arts weapons around their wrists. At one point, two officers twist a woman's arm till she rises from the ground, her face wrenched in agony. Police departments nationwide say it's a tried and true way to make uncooperative protesters cooperate. Demonstrators have alleged police brutality at least since Freedom Riders launched their sit-down strikes in Alabama almost 30 years ago. Suddenly, some pro-choice liberals are as supportive of the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations, while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of police state rhetoric once associated with anti-war radicals. Other conservative lawmakers have echoed his concerns, and on Nov. 15, with little media attention, President Bush signed legislation withholding certain federal grants from cities whose police use excessive force. I think it's utter stupidity, Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates said. You didn't hear any Republicans complain then, did you? His officers, he added, are as well-trained in the use of these holds as any in the country. Pain-compliance techniques fit into the scale above talk but below the use of a Taser gun, tear gas, and the police baton. Another trick of the trade: the mastoid lift, in which officers press the nerves along each side of the neck. Demonstrated on recruits who had seated themselves like protesters on the Academy's playing field, each of these techniques worked promptly. They become human worm-balls and make themselves tense, rendering standard compliance techniques ineffective, officers say. Trying to carry away protesters in these cases becomes even more dangerous to them and arresting officers, police say. To demonstrate, instructors jabbed the device between an arm and the chest of a cadet, and twisted it around in what is known as a trap-and-wrap maneuver. The gentlest twist triggered enough pain to make the recruit comply promptly. Protesters are given every chance to move on their own. Police actually plead with Operation Rescue demonstrators in some cases, he said. The first time pressure is applied, most people fall to the ground, Nichols said. It's kind of like watching a movie where someone gets shot 10 times and keeps walking. Patrick E. McKinley of LAPD's Metro Division has worked at demonstrations by the Revolutionary Communist Party and the Jewish Defense League, and at protests for or against everything from apartheid to animal rights. If you don't respond to pain, and it is applied with more force, injuries are possible. Maybe I just got a little insight into what it was like to be a black demonstrating for civil rights. Operation Rescue has not gone limp after its encounters with police. For example, feminist lawyer Gloria Allred, never hesitant to criticize official abuses, said she believes police acted with professionalism last March, issuing fair warnings and acting only after demonstrators failed to comply. In fact, the emotional volatility of the abortion issue has shaken the way many think in the debate over police uses of force. Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff has skewered liberal civil libertarians for letting their ideology stop them from supporting anti-abortion protesters' fight to restrain what he calls the torture police. He also has charged that his media colleagues have turned their backs on the uncomfortably complex issue. William B. Allen, a controversial Ronald Reagan appointee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, has similar views: We like to value tolerance. But you never know how tolerant you are until you're challenged on something you care about. This issue has touched some very raw nerves, and we find we're not as tolerant as we pretend to be. Even before the commission met, conservative lawmakers were joining Sen. The Justice Department already investigates charges of police abuse, Gates pointed out. Carol Sobel, staff attorney for the Los Angeles Chapter of the ACLU, shares Gates' assessment that the government acted in this case because conservative lawmakers were sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause. But, unlike Gates, she believes that using pain-compliance against any nonviolent demonstrator is often barbaric, and she supports restraints on the police. Still, she believes the new measure will help assure that the cost of demonstrating in this town doesn't escalate. 