Bail for Judy J. Wischer, 42, former American Continental president, was lowered to $200,000. Bail for Robin S. Symes, 37, and Ray C. Fidel, 32, both former Lincoln presidents, was cut to $100,000. All three posted bail late Friday and were expected to be released during the night. We think (the decision) is unsupportable on the evidence that was introduced this week, Neal said. Neal argued that Keating, who three years ago had a net worth of nearly $40 million, is broke. Keating's former accountant testified that his debts exceed his assets by $5.2 million. Ira Reiner, whose office has flip-flopped twice in its bail recommendations in the case, praised the decision not to reduce Keating's bail. Mr. Keating is accused of cheating people out of their savings, Reiner said in a press conference after the hearing. Afterwards, Donald Smaltz, attorney for Symes, criticized Reiner and Klausner for their handling of the bail hearing. The most talked about event in the last several weeks has been the Iraqi invasion, Smaltz said. The sole thing that replaced Saddam Hussein on the front page was Charles Keating, and Reiner's milking that for all it's worth. On Tuesday, when the indictments were unsealed, prosecutors did not object to releasing all the defendants on their own recognizance. But asked why his office changed his mind later, he said, I'm not sure that I understand the semantic difference. Throughout the hearing, defense attorneys brought witnesses and other evidence to court to show that their clients were destitute or nearly so. The alleged crimes caused the victims to lose nearly $1.2 million, hardly serious enough to warrant such high bails, they contended. He said 17,458 small investors had bought $250 million in American Continental bonds at Lincoln. He reminded the court of one major distinction between this case and other thrift fraud cases. Vesco, a New Jersey financier indicted in 1972 for allegedly defrauding four firms out of $224 million, fled the country and remains at large. 