Today he's after urine samples, using a metal tube attached to a stick. Maybe El Nino, an Equatorial storm system, alters Antarctic currents, he muses, carrying the silverfish that the seals feast on out of reach. What drives Dr. Testa and hundreds of other researchers to Antarctica each year is the hope of discovering a hidden truth about the planet. A Fish Story If it's so cold in Antarctica, why don't the fish freeze? Arthur DeVries has wondered why since his first visit here in 1961. Seawater under the Ross Ice Shelf ranges from 28 degrees to 29.5 degrees -- cold enough to freeze most fish as hard as Mrs. Pauls's. (The water doesn't freeze at 32 degrees because salt and pressure lowers its freezing point.) After dissecting hundreds of them and analyzing their blood, he learned they produce an antifreeze molecule that lowers their freezing point just enough to survive. A former grad student, Jack Duman of Notre Dame, found antifreeze proteins in Midwestern beetles, spiders and dandelions. Cryobiologists dream of using antifreeze to preserve hearts for transplants, or making freeze-resistant orange groves. Among the results of Dr. DeVries's yearly three-month stints here are two divorces. His third wife, biologist Chris Cheng, collaborates with him at their base at the University of Illinois, trying to isolate the fish gene that makes antifreeze proteins. One sunny afternoon in November, Dr. DeVries and Joseph Eastman, a longtime associate who teaches at Miami University in Ohio, fish through a hole in the ice. That night, they dissect a few dozen small notothenioidei and place their organs in test tubes filled with seawater. They want to see if ice collects in fish organs, and if it does, how the organs and antifreeze keep the ice in check. The fish convulses, then stiffens, its eyes turn gray with ice. Ice buildup should overload the spleen and kill the fish, he says, but it doesn't. Meanwhile, Canadian scientists are trying to breed salmon with antifreeze genes so the fish can flourish in the icy waters off Nova Scotia. DNA Plant Technology Corp. in Cinnaminson, N.J., is testing tomatoes implanted with antifreeze genes to see if they better withstand freezing and thawing. The Great Flood Watch Robert Bindschadler sits in his dorm room at McMurdo -- a place with the charm of a trailer park. He's staring at satellite photos that may foretell the fate of hundreds of millions of people. If so, sea level would rise so quickly that, within decades, some coastal areas would lose 10 feet of shoreline a year. Then, it's curtains for Bangladesh, says Ohio State glaciologist, Ian Whillans. By comparing the outflow of ice with measurements of snow accumulation in the interior, scientists can calculate whether the ice sheet is shedding ice. And the faster the ice streams flow, the thinner the ice sheet gets, until, eventually, it collapses. Just 20 years ago, the threat of a great flood from a melting Antarctica was the stuff of supermarket tabloids. Scientists found that the streams changed speed and direction rapidly -- showing the ice sheet as far more unpredictable than imagined. And they found 500,000-year-old marine fossils under the ice, indicating the ice sheet had melted before when the Earth had warmed. This year, Dr. Bentley will hunt for sticky spots using radar. Things are changing rapidly, and we don't have ways to predict the future of the ice sheet, Dr. Bentley says. Scientists believe the radiation was produced about 500,000 years after the birth of the universe and is the key to understanding the central paradox of cosmology. Dr. Smoot, a 45-year-old blithe spirit from Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in California, leads a team of scientists from the West Coast and Italy. Jeffrey Peterson, 36, leads the other team, from Princeton University and several East Coast labs. In 1988, their telescope broke as often as an old Ford. In 1991, a new government storage tank of liquid nitrogen was supposed to supply the team, but one night it exploded, shattering in two. 