"This situation, I think, was everyone's secret nightmare about what could happen with oil traffic in the sound," said Dennis Kelso, commissioner of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation. "And during that transit, undoubtedly a large stretch of shoreline will be contaminated," he said. Eleven of 17 tanks that lie forward of the ship's masthead were ruptured in the accident, causing concern over removal of the oil, said Coast Guard Lt. "Whenever you start removing oil from a vessel this size it has to be done in a controlled manner," Wieliczkiewicz said. Kelso said Alaska has a plan for oil spills that calls for action within five hours of a spill. It took several hours longer, he said, and only two of seven skimmers available to the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. were used at the outset. "The whole food chain could be affected by the spill," said Alan Reichman, ocean ecology coordinator for the environmental group Greenpeace, in Seattle. "There's a high concentration of sea otter, waterfowl, sea birds and pink salmon in that area," said Steve Goldstein, a spokesman for the Interior Department in Washington. "Some birds have already died, and we are doing our best to try to save the fish by containing the oil to the area where it presently is and by trying to skim it." Whales, porpoises and seals are also common in Prince William Sound. Last year, they were paid about $85 million for their catches, she said. North Slope crude oil is shipped 800 miles through the trans-Alaska oil pipeline from Prudhoe Bay south to Valdez for shipment aboard tankers to refineries outside Alaska. The vessel's captain, Joseph Hazelwood, has worked for Exxon for 20 years, at least 10 as a ship's master. It was unclear if a pilot was aboard the Exxon Valdez when it grounded. Steven McCall said National Transportation Safety Board investigators are expected to arrive Sunday to take over the accident probe. The Coast Guard issued a statement late Saturday that McCall has subpoenaed the ship's master and two crew members. The subpoenas require them to make themselves available to NTSB investigators arriving Sunday. 15, 1976, grounding of the Argo Merchant tanker off the Nantucket shoals off Massachusetts, in which 7.6 million gallons of oil spilled, Golob said. 1, 1979, when the tanker Burmah Agate collided with another ship in Galveston Bay, Texas. 