If equipment is not in order, the Coast Guard can prevent the boarding of passengers until things are up to snuff.; The application of the rules is not universal: the older the vessel, the less stringent the requirements, because Safety of Life at Sea rules have grandfather clauses.; Age: no automatic alarm; A vessel need comply only with the rules in effect at the time the keel was laid or it last underwent major reconstruction. Thus, 70 percent of vessels visiting the United States need not meet the most recent international rules, enacted in 1974 to cover ships built after May 1980.; However, everyone who deals with these figures points out that age is not an automatic indicator of an unsafe vessel. Joel D. Sipes, former chief of the Coast Guard's Office of Marine Safety, testified in Congress this spring: We have been concerned for a number of years that the grandfather clauses create an incentive to bring more and more older ships back into service. Of the 176 deaths listed, only five were aboard ocean-going cruise vessels under foreign flags.; William A. O'Neil, secretary general of the International Maritime Organization, fears that may change, partly because of the leeway the grandfather rules give for refitting. One peculiar gap in existing regulations involves vessels built under the 1974 rules, which banned wood construction, but for the first time did not require sprinkler systems.; These vessels would probably be among the first existing vessels required to install sprinklers.; Denmark, Norway, Sweden and the United States have entered proposals to cover older vessels immediately, or to modify sharply the permissive rules. John J. O'Brien Jr., the Coast Guard's deputy chief.; If you fly to another country to save a few dollars, he said, let the buyer beware; you don't know if it's been inspected in the last year, or at all. ; On the other hand, when U.S.-registered vessels are inspected, O'Brien said, they are required to meet full Coast Guard standards, including expensive Type I life vests designed to be very easy to use. 