Eight workers suffered injuries, two seriously, about 90 minutes later when a tractor towing supplies rolled over on them in a service gallery, authorities in nearby Sangatte reported. That time is comparable to flying, if transport to and from airports is included, and is half the time of a car-ferry journey. The conservative Daily Express newspaper noted in its Wednesday editions that Britons would theoretically be able to walk to France for the first time since the last Ice Age. The threading of the probes through 100 yards of chalk under the English Channel marks a major turning point in three years of drilling on the world's costliest tunnel. French workers reaching the tiny hole telephoned their British counterparts and relayed the news to TransManche officials. It's the first time we have air passing between the two tunnels," said Gordon Crighton, tunnel engineering manager. "We see it as just another exercise, but I'm sure there will be a lot of parties going on," he said. The workers will now bore out a one-yard hole to permit passage from one half to the other. A work slowdown since last week by militant tunnelers demanding more pay on the French side appeared likely Monday to stall the linkup until the weekend or beyond. But TransManche officials said earlier Tuesday that the meeting in the middle would occur on schedule. Taking into account all the tunnels, 80 percent of the drilling has been completed by giant, Japanese-built boring machines working from Calais and Folkstone, England. President Francois Mitterrand and Mrs. Thatcher are expected to meet each other in the tunnel Jan. Officials estimate the tunnel may carry 28 million passengers in the first year of operation, although Eurotunnel doesn't expect a profit until the end of the century. Since construction began in late 1987, there have been seven deaths on the British side and two on the French. Five British firms were ordered last Wednesday to stand trial on charges related to the death of a construction worker last year. The undersea bond between the two hereditary enemies was envisioned nearly 200 years ago by a French engineer called Albert Mathieu. 