A series of violent eruptions has rocked the mountain since Wednesday, blowing ash and pumice 80,000 feet in the air and sifting volcanic grit over villages 90 miles away. At least 101 people have been killed, 150,000 Filipinos have crowded into refugee centers in Manila and 20,000 American military dependents and civilian workers are being evacuated from the country. The successful forecast points up just how far the science of volcanoes has come in the past decade.; The basics are the same. Before, they had to visit their instruments and collect the data by hand.; (check) Information is routinely analyzed by computer, allowing researchers to assess a situation quickly -- and to develop computer models for predicting the behavior of volcanoes.; Researchers have also made strides in interpreting what they see. A third observatory has been operating in Hawaii since 1912.; American scientists have since responded to a number of volcanic awakenings throughout the world, from Galunggung in Indonesia to Nevado del Ruiz in Colombia, improving their ability to quickly evaluate volcano hazards. One was developed by James Westphal, a well-known astronomer and gadgeteer at the California Institute of Technology, who patterned it after an idea used in missile guidance systems. Most are innocuous, caused by the cracking of rock above pools of magma that, for the moment, aren't going anywhere. But others are ominous, reflecting the surge of magma toward the surface in preparation for an eruption.; In the past few years, Chouet said, seismologists have learned to recognize distinctive tremors that mean an eruption is on its way. Factories and businesses shut down; crops and livestock were left unattended.; This time the evacuation paid off, possibly averting a number of deaths. Surveying: Researchers measure the volcano, with optical instruments or high-tech laser tools, to see if it is bulging or stretching as a result of magma rising inside. Pick and shovel: Geologists dig through layers of old ash and lava to determine how often a volcano erupted in the past -- a clue to what it might do in the future. Researchers are learning to distinguish ordinary earthquakes from those caused by magma rising toward the surface -- a sign of impending eruption.; 4. Spectrometer: First developed to measure pollutants from factory smokestacks, it is now also used to measure sulfur dioxide in the smoke belched by volcanoes. 