In the late 1970s, poor farmers living in communities surrounding this small town began replacing their fields of cacao and coffee with coca to meet the growing U.S. demand for cocaine. Lately, someone else has been attracted by its big profits: the country's murderous guerrillas, the Shining Path. In pursuing its strategy of trying to topple Peru's democratically elected government, it had concentrated its bombings and shootings in the mountains and in Lima. But the guerrillas have discovered they can easily win support among farmers in the jungles of Upper Huallaga because of widespread anger generated by the U.S.-financed Peruvian anti-drug campaign. While Washington has been quick to trumpet links between guerrillas and drug trafficking in other countries, U.S. officials downplay the connection between drugs and the Shining Path. One reason is embarrassment that the U.S.-financed anti-drug effort may have pushed coca growers closer to the guerrillas. Anti-drug police, Upper Huallaga residents and Interior Ministry officials report that army officers received hundreds of thousands of dollars in payoffs from drug lords for their help in keeping anti-drug officials at bay. When new President Alan Garcia lifted the state of emergency, the army lost any ability it may have had to protect coca growers. With the army impediment gone, the anti-drug campaign set about pushing traffickers out of Tingo Maria, their former headquarters, eliminating coca growing in the immediate vicinity of the town. In return for their protection, the guerrillas demand that farmers turn over one-fifth of their coca crop, according to UMOPAR officers, farmers and priests. Twenty-nine CORAH workers have been murdered in the valley since 1984, and it's likely that the Shining Path will encourage this kind of violence. On March 13 in El Triumfo, a small community near Aucayacu, they executed a 23-year-old man who spoke out against a guerrilla-organized activity. That really shook up the 80 families in the community, says Enrique Pena, a parish priest who can no longer enter the guerrilla-controlled area. This is the Catch-22 that now confounds Peruvian and U.S. officials trying to eradicate both drugs and guerrillas from Peru. --- Mr. Bridges is a free-lance writer. 