Wearing a bright yellow flame-retardant shirt, Donald Despain crouches down to study the ash-covered forest floor. The firestorm that raged through here in recent weeks was driven by 60-mile-an-hour winds that fanned temperatures to more than 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit. Where many people recoil at the sweep of nature's destructive power, the 47-year-old Mr. Despain marvels at the tiny steps life is already taking to renew itself. As Yellowstone National Park's research biologist, he has already begun to monitor the forest's rebirth from the worst fire on record. His eyes red from the blowing ash, Mr. Despain patiently counts the quarter-inch lodgepole pine seed wings within a rectangular frame he places on the hillside. Only about 500 mature trees were on an acre of hillside here before the fire. Grasses and several types of wildflowers, ranging from fireweed to wild geraniums, are already sprouting less than seven weeks after fire roared past Grant Village near Yellowstone Lake. Next year, the ground cover replacing the park's burnt stands of aging lodgepole pines should provide a 30-fold increase in plant species. More edible plants, in turn, support larger, and more various populations of birds and other animals. Gerald M. Freeman, the president and chief operating officer of Stone Forest Industries Inc., agrees: Controlled burning, selective logging and reforestation are a much better way to manage the forests. The emotional appeal of replanting the parks already has led to some reforestation proposals -- some of them a bit off the wall. New Jersey's governor, Thomas Kean, for instance, announced that his state planned to donate thousands of evergreen seedlings to replant Yellowstone, apparently without realizing that none of the proffered species are indigenous to the park. He worked under Glen Cole, the park's head of research from 1968 to 1976 and a leading advocate of letting natural processes prevail in the park. Mr. Despain has set up or is planning several long-term research projects to study the effects of this year's fires. In addition to his seed-counting, Mr. Despain has created nine before and after study plots to gauge effects of the fire. Within these 15-by-25-meter plots, he and other researchers cataloged the size and the number of lodgepole pines, as well as the variety of plant growth on the forest floor. Yet only 10% to 15% of land within these boundaries was scorched by raging crown fires that burn everything in sight, Mr. Varley estimates. The slow-growing trees, only seven to 10 inches in diameter, were relatively young by Yellowstone standards. As lodgepoles age, they lose some of their natural resistance to disease and insects. Dead trees fall to the forest floor, joined by others blown over by the strong winds howling down from surrounding peaks. In addition to fireweed and wild geraniums, lupen, yarrow, mountain dandelion and arnica have already been spotted this year among the ashes. Aspen trees, whose paper-white bark and yellow leaves punctuate the evergreen forests this time of year, also thrive after a fire. Shrubs and grasses cover what is left of the burnt undergrowth, although fire scars will be visible on some trees for years. Insects begin attacking the snags almost immediately after a fire, and the charred trunks are likely to be toppled by the wind. But many snags, weathering to fence-post gray, will remain as monuments to the fire of 1988 for years to come. At that point, the pines -- still less than 15 feet tall -- begin to choke off light reaching the forest floor as their limbs grow together. As lodgepoles come to dominate the ecosystem, other plant species decline in number, reaching a low of no more than a dozen in the mature forest. Three to five additional bird species are likely to migrate into Yellowstone next year, attracted to the new plants and insects thriving in the meadows. Among the new arrivals may be the three-toed and blackbacked woodpeckers, the mountain blue bird and the Western wood phoebe. Memories of Bambi and Smokey the Bear notwithstanding, Yellowstone's large animals don't appear to have suffered from the fire. Yellowstone's elk and bison herds, as well as moose, should benefit from the additional forage in the park next year. It's too early to tell whether the fires, which burned some lower pastures, affected the herds' ability to weather Yellowstone's long winter. More winterkill among the herds might be expected this year in any case, since animal populations are now near their historical upper limits. Ecologically, there's no down side to the fire, he adds, conceding that similar statements by park officials may have sounded cavalier when the fires were raging. Wyoming's U.S. senators, Republicans Malcolm Wallop and Alan K. Simpson, are mindful of the damage the fires caused the state's tourist industry this year, as well as the threat to gateway towns near the park. So far, Mr. Mott, who didn't return calls for comment, doesn't appear in danger of losing his job, park service officials say. But Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel says he favors certain, unspecified changes in the natural-burn policy. The sun had just set with an ash-tinted tangerine glow behind the hills to the west. 