Who is this man who would want to reopen such old national wounds? Mr. Krane is now a senior partner there, and told the Judiciary Committee that Bob Bork is a person without prejudice against any group. The very next day was the beginning of my attending so many briefings, Ms. Lafontant told the senators, I wondered to myself whether I had been wise in complaining. Bork opponents have tried to substitute result-oriented statistics for careful analysis of his legal reasoning to impugn Judge Bork as anti-women, pro-business, etc. Perhaps even more telling, his opinions are among the circuit's most notable civil-rights rulings. The issue was whether the military branches are subject to judicial review where civil rights are at stake. Judge Bork has written or joined several opinions protecting women's rights, especially at work: Laffey v. Northwest Airlines (1984) demanded that stewardesses get paid as much as male pursers for comparable work; Palmer v. Shultz (1987) held for women foreign service officers alleging discrimination by the State Department in assignments and promotions; and Ososky v. Wick (1983) reversed the lower court to bring women in the Foreign Service under Equal Pay Act protections. --Record as Solicitor General. Solicitors general have great freedom to file briefs weighing the claims of private parties in cases where they are not required to act as the government's defense lawyer. Mr. Bork used his position to argue more pro-civil rights cases than any Supreme Court nominee since Thurgood Marshall. Indeed, perhaps the most lasting accomplishment of his solicitor generalship in the mid-1970s was building on the civil rights gains of the 1960s. This controversial case raised the conflict between the freedom of private groups to set their own rules and the public goal of non-discrimination. The civil-rights law, Solicitor General Bork said, reaches the actions of private individuals not in any way facilitated by state law. In several cases, Solicitor General Bork took the controversial position that plaintiffs do not have to prove the defendant's discriminatory intent in order to win discrimination cases. They argued that they had been locked into low-paying jobs by testing policies and union rules. U.S., the Supreme Court refused to accept his argument that a wholly race-neutral seniority system is unlawful if it perpetuates discriminatory effects. Joseph Biden claimed that throughout his career, Judge Bork has opposed virtually every civil rights advance. The critics cite Mr. Bork's speculative academic writings -- yet distort even these: --Brown v. At a Federalist Society meeting this past January, Judge Bork defended Brown's reasoning against critics who insisted that the 14th Amendment was not intended to prohibit segregated schools. He said, To have chosen separation rather than equality would have been to read the equal protection clause out of the Constitution. Much has been made of Mr. Bork's three-page article in The New Republic in 1963 making the libertarian case against government-coerced desegregation of private establishments. Instead, his purpose was to warn against the dangers of government intervention into private relations even for a cause as noble as desegregation. Does this sound like someone who would undo racial progress? --Voting Rights. The high court in Harper explicitly said that there was no evidence of any racially discriminatory application of the $1.50 poll tax. The 24th Amendment, he noted, prohibited only federal poll taxes, intentionally leaving states free to assess such taxes if they chose. A reading of Judge Bork's voluminous cvil rights record leaves the inescapable conclusion that the partisan campaign against him was one of intentional distortion. 