As the summer draws to its close, Zimbabwe's farmers are counting the cost of what for most of them is the worst drought they have ever experienced. Over the country as a whole, rainfall has been less than half the seasonal average; in many southern and eastern areas, it has been between a tenth and a third of normal levels. Cotton deliveries are forecast at less than 90,000 tonnes, down from 205,000 tonnes in 1991, soyabeans at 30,000 tonnes (133,000 tonnes last year), while winter wheat production is expected to fall to less than a third of normal levels. In the low veld, where rains have been below normal since 1989, sugar production has come to a halt, turning Zimbabwe from a substantial exporter into a net importer. At ZDollars 3.7bn (Pounds 410m) last year, agriculture accounted for almost 20 per cent of gross domestic product, though in real terms, it was 8 per cent below the mid-1980s peak. The collapse of sugar, cotton, and maize exports and reduced foreign earnings from coffee and tea will cost the country at least Dollars 150m (10 per cent of exports) over the next 12 months. Zimbabwe's needs are put at about 2m tonnes of maize and 500,000 tonnes of wheat, sugar and other products, while Malawi will need at least 1m tonnes and Zambia more than 800,000 tonnes. Initially, Spoornet, the South African railways, will run two liner trains daily, each carrying 700 tonnes of food, though the frequency will increase later. While transport industry officials expect Spoornet to cope, there are doubts as to the capacity of the regional systems in Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and, to a lesser degree, Zimbabwe. Next year's crop and livestock production will remain below average - even if good rains fall - as early plantings will be reduced because of a lack of irrigation. The dairy sector, like maize, was in crisis before the drought, because of the government's producer price policy, which has pushed farmers into export crops (such as tobacco), horticulture and even game farming. 