In Washington, intelligence specialists said they believe that the jetliner may have been bombed by people seeking to retaliate against France for its recent actions in Lebanon. For several months, France has played an active part in the Lebanon crisis, attempting to broker a settlement between Christian and pro-Syrian forces. Gen. Michel Aoun and his Maronite Christian forces against Syrian troops and Muslim militias in Lebanon. Ever since, one intelligence official said Wednesday, the French government has realized that its planes were being targeted for some sort of terrorist attack. French military helicopter crews who visited the crash site in the desolate reaches of the Sahara Desert late Wednesday afternoon found no survivors. Saying he was reading a statement from Islamic Jihad, the London caller declared: We are proud of this action, which was very successful. We would like to say the French are warned not to exchange information regarding Sheik Obeid with the Israelis no more. We demand the freedom of Sheik Obeid, and otherwise we will refresh the memories of the bombings in Paris of '85 and '86. However, the message made little sense in the context of France's limited role in the Obeid matter. A more likely possibility, speculated terrorist experts and one intelligence source in Washington, was a terrorist attack on behalf of pro-Syrian Muslim forces in Lebanon. The pieces are widely scattered, so it didn't crash on impact, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. Air controllers lost contact with UTA Flight 772 less than an hour after it took off from N'Djamena. The sudden loss of contact was another explanation given by the French airline authorities supporting the theory of a terrorist explosion. At the White House, Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the U.S. government's information on Tuesday's disaster was limited. It seems to me that there's a much stronger Middle Eastern context than an African context, Hoffman said. This would send a pretty clear message to France that they ought to back away, Hoffman added. He noted that by the end of August, all the main Shiite players in Lebanon had threatened some sort of retribution against France. Three days later, Hezbollah threatened to stage suicide attacks against French targets. 28 was delayed for more than five hours before taking off from Dulles International Airport in Washington when security officials received a last-minute bomb threat. According to one well-informed intelligence official, both French and American officials took that threat seriously and searched all the luggage on the plane before allowing it to depart. Apart from Syrian-backed Lebanese forces, Kupperman suggested that Libya and Iran also could have been motivated to stage such an attack. 