A stone's throw from the smelly Smithfield meat market is an office building complex with no sign or anything to attract the attention of Londoners hurrying by. This is the Central Selling Organization, London-based marketing arm of the De Beers diamond empire, controlled by the wealthy Oppenheimer family of South Africa. Its experts sort mounds of rough diamonds constituting 80 percent of the world's annual production. Sales have declined sharply, and the 56-year-old cartel is facing pressure to give producers better terms and allow them to sell more of their own gems. The African National Congress has pledged to nationalize South Africa's major sources of wealth if it takes power. Apparently attempting to limit risk, De Beers recently announced it would split South African and foreign interests into two publicly held companies, one based in Switzerland. The decline was sharpest in the second half of the year, when sales fell 24 percent from the first six months. "There was a very definite, noticeable slack in demand," said analyst Peter Miller of Yorkton Securities Inc. in London. This past week, De Beers announced it was increasing prices 5.5 percent, compared to a 15.5 percent increase a year earlier. The government of newly independent Namibia, meanwhile, is expected to demand a one-fifth stake in Consolidated Diamond Mines, De Beers' Namibian subsidiary. The effect hasn't been felt yet; De Beers' profit rose 37 percent to $1.1 billion in 1989. Few diamond-producing countries dare sell their output outside the organization, and some bold enough to leave have returned because of the difficulty in peddling diamonds alone. It was robbed once, in the early 1980s, when some diamonds were snatched as couriers carried them from one building to another. Of all diamonds mined, only 15 percent will end up in jewelry, but these represent 80 percent of the value of the world's diamond production. De Beers's achievement over the decades has been to mass-market what was once an aristocratic luxury without greatly diminishing its value. While other commodities markets have suffered repeated convulsions, rough diamond prices haven't fallen since the organization started announcing price changes in 1964. Said Lunzer: "It's not unnatural for people in the producing countries to say, 'Are we getting a proper share of the value of our national resource?"' Oppenheimer, who linked the diamond business with his extensive Anglo American Corp. gold-mining interests, is credited with steering De Beers through the Depression. 