One flashpoint may come as soon as today, when an Iraqi-owned supertanker attempts to take on Iraqi oil from the Saudi oil terminal at Yanbu in the Red Sea. The U.S. hasn't formally declared a blockade, but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass. Iraq declared that it had formally annexed Kuwait, dropping all pretense that it intended to pull out of the nation it invaded last Thursday. Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak called for an emergency meeting in Cairo today at which Arab leaders will agonize over whether to support putting a multinational army in the path of Saddam Hussein. King Hussein of Jordan, who had been supportive of Iraq, said he would refuse to recognize the official annexation that Saddam Hussein announced yesterday in Bagdhad. Its army, battle-trained and wielding the most modern Soviet-made tanks and air-defense weapons, has already impressed U.S. experts with the skill and efficiency of its 2 a.m. blitzkrieg attack on Kuwait last Thursday. The Iraqis have moved surface-to-surface Scud missiles into Kuwait -- missiles that can carry chemical warheads. Their most likely aim would be to pulverize Iraq's most sensitive weapons facilities, including those that produce chemical weapons and those that are experimenting with missiles and nuclear and biological weapons. President Bush, Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refused to disclose the size of the force they have committed. As time passes without an Iraqi military move, the U.S. position grows stronger, military experts say. Every hour that goes by without an attack now is good, said Paul K. Davis, director of strategy assessment at the Rand Corp. in Santa Monica, Calif. It indicates that he {Saddam Hussein} is probably facing up to the fact that things have not gone his way in the world. By her measure, Iraq has stockpiled thousands of tons of mustard gas, a World War I chemical that burns the skin. It may also have hundreds of tons of Sarin, a nerve gas developed from insecticides by the Germans in World War II. Among Mr. Bush's advisors, though, Gen. Powell expressed the most confidence about the outcome. While pondering his water options, Saddam Hussein must weigh his major vulnerability to attacks from the air. More than 100 U.S. aircraft, largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, have already arrived to augment the two carriers and their 80 warplanes each. Indeed, most of Iran's jet fighters were either destroyed in the early days of the war or were grounded for lack of spare parts. The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields. The real-life scenario began Saturday when, according to Mr. Cheney, the White House began planning to send him to Saudi Arabia. In Jeddah, after two hours of discussion, King Fahd, the Saudi ruler, gave his approval to the military options the U.S. officials presented. Meanwhile, flight after flight of F-15's was taking off from Langley Air Force Base heading east, seeking the line of airborne tankers that were hovering, mid-ocean, to refuel them. Army reservists prepared mechanized infantry units, which will likely use eight fast roll on roll off ships to carry them across the Atlantic and through the Suez Canal. In the Indian Ocean, the Navy was moving special pre-positioned ships toward the Gulf from their base at Diego Garcia. They are designed to supply Marine forces, which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to marry up with their equipment at points where the ships arrive. That group includes the battleship Wisconsin, carrying cruise missiles that can be aimed precisely toward Iraqi targets. Each carrier hauls a kind of mini-Air Force, including radar search planes and planes specially equipped to jam enemy communications and radars, along with a powerful assemblage of bombers and fighters. 