As Yellowstone National Park's research biologist, he has already begun to monitor the forest's rebirth from the worst fire on record. Grasses and several types of wildflowers, ranging from fireweed to wild geraniums, are already sprouting less than seven weeks after fire roared past Grant Village near Yellowstone Lake. For the first five years after a fire, while surrounding vegetation is still relatively low, there will be a proliferation of wildflowers in the park, she says. Aspen trees, whose paper-white bark and yellow leaves punctuate the evergreen forests this time of year, also thrive after a fire. Shrubs and grasses cover what is left of the burnt undergrowth, although fire scars will be visible on some trees for years. Ecologically, there's no down side to the fire, he adds, conceding that similar statements by park officials may have sounded cavalier when the fires were raging. Because of the fires, park officials Sunday had closed off some areas, but Vanderbilt said Monday the rain had allowed the reopening of the areas to hiking and camping. Forest Service officials, meanwhile, began assessing damage to the 920 acres of national forest and 210 acres of private woodlands burned after the fire broke out Friday afternoon, Bluedorn said. Firefighters in California, Michigan, Montana, Wyoming and Utah battled holiday weekend fires which blackened more than 6,000 acres of forest and wilderness areas. In southern Utah's scenic Zion National Park, firefighters tried today to contain a 600-acre fire that was ignited by lightning June 19 but had been allowed to burn in a small area. Arsonists set 172 of the 296 Mark Twain fires that have broken out so far this year, burning more than 9,000 acres, Smallwood said. As one of the Forest Service's 125 special law enforcement agents, Smallwood has spent most of the past 16 years investigating fires in the forests he loves. Firefighters spent an eighth day Saturday battling the lightning-caused, 8,139-acre Divide fire 50 miles northeast of Silver City in the Gila National Forest in southwestern New Mexico, U.S. Forest Service officials said. The blaze blackened acres of ponderosa pine trees, many of them 60 to 80 years old, said U.S. Forest Service Fire Staff Officer Jim Carson. 