The US Treasury wants the bank to bypass the governments of developing countries and lend sizeable sums directly to the private sector. The bank is also under pressure to follow the example of Mr Jacques Attali's European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and attach strict political conditions to its loans. Development economists, meanwhile, are urging the bank to respect the rhetoric of last year's World Development Report and focus more on poverty alleviation. What kind of bank will Mr Preston inherit from his predecessor, Mr Barber Conable? Mr Conable, a former Republican congressman, arrived at the bank in 1986 knowing little about either banking or development. Although now well-liked (partly for championing causes such as women's rights in the Third World), many observers say he never fully recovered from a rocky start involving a divisive internal reorganisation of the bank. Many Third World countries have gone backwards. Many optimists see the debt reduction strategy launched by Mr Nicholas Brady, the US Treasury Secretary, in 1989, as a 'final solution' to the debt crisis. Under the plan official agencies assume some of the burden of developing countries' private debts on condition that they implement market-oriented economic reforms. 'The Brady plan is enough,' says Mr Williamson, if developing countries are willing to embrace reform and if it is matched by greater forgiveness of official debt. Officials such as Mr David Mulford of the US Treasury say the recent forgiveness of about half of Poland's official debt will not set a precedent for other debtors. 'The bank failed to take a timely leadership position on the debt crisis,' concludes Mr Richard Feinberg, director of the Overseas Development Council in Washington. As incoming president, Mr Preston must review the bank's strategies for promoting development. This is both because countries failed to abide by the loan conditions and because the bank's policies were sometimes misguided. He says the bank was naive to expect entrepreneurs to respond to the austerity of adjustment by increasing investment. The maturing of bank programmes and the failure to expand lending much in the 1980s has led to a marked shrinkage in its net transfers to developing countries. The World Bank operates under very different rules: its charter requires it to be non-political and only its small affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), can make direct loans to private businesses. Such values are alien in many developing countries, but that does not imply they should be denied the means for economic development. If strict political conditionality had been imposed in the past, the bank could not have lent to a development star such as South Korea. Most analysts, however, say the bank should tighten up a little. Should a significant chunk of the bank's loans be made direct to the private sector? He says the bank's main aim is to combat poverty and that it will seek a 'balanced relationship between government and the market' in developing countries. Advocates of a switch to direct support of the private sector are surely not arguing for public subsidies for Third World entrepreneurs; but if subsidies are ruled out, why should the bank's judgment of market risk be more reliable than that of private lenders in the west? During the 1980s the bank placed great faith in free market nostrums. The bank's own research department is highlighting the need to relieve poverty directly and to improve fundamentals, such as education, nutrition and health care. 'Liberalisation matters,' says Mr Williamson at the Institute for International Economics, 'but education is more important.' Mr Feinberg at the Overseas Development Council broadly agrees: the bank has got to find a way of 'melding equity and efficiency as it promotes development'. The challenge for Mr Preston is clear: put the sterile ideological battles of the 1980s behind the bank and develop policies that put greater emphasis on the formation of human capital. Mr Summers, the bank's economist, says pessimistically that because development money will be in short supply over the next decade, the bank and other donors will have to concentrate on exporting ideas. 