Japan, meanwhile, announced it would increase its aid to countries hardest hit by enforcing the sanctions. Hoping to defuse criticism that it is not doing its share to oppose Baghdad, Japan said up to $2 billion in aid may be sent to nations most affected by the U.N. embargo on Iraq. "America must stand up to aggression, and we will," said Bush, who added that the U.S. military may remain in the Saudi Arabian desert indefinitely. "I cannot predict just how long it will take to convince Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait," Bush said. Bush's aides said the president would follow his address to Congress with a televised message for the Iraqi people, declaring the world is united against their government's invasion of Kuwait. The Philippines and Namibia, the first of the developing nations to respond to an offer Monday by Saddam of free oil _ in exchange for sending their own tankers to get it _ said no to the Iraqi leader. Saddam's offer was seen as a none-too-subtle attempt to bypass the U.N. embargo, in effect since four days after Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, by getting poor countries to dock their tankers in Iraq. But according to a State Department survey, Cuba and Romania have struck oil deals with Iraq and companies elsewhere are trying to continue trade with Baghdad, all in defiance of U.N. sanctions. Along similar lines, ABC News reported that following Aziz's visit, Iraq is apparently prepared to give Iran all the oil it wants to make up for the damage Iraq inflicted on Iran during their conflict. During the summit, Bush encouraged Mikhail Gorbachev to withdraw 190 Soviet military specialists from Iraq, where they remain to fulfill contracts. "A soldier can rape a father's daughter in front of him and he can't do anything about it." _The State Department said Iraq had told U.S. officials that American males residing in Iraq and Kuwait who were born in Arab countries will be allowed to leave. Japan, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the crisis in the gulf, said Tuesday it may give $2 billion to Egypt, Jordan and Turkey, hit hardest by the U.N. prohibition on trade with Iraq. But critics in the United States have said Japan should do more because its economy depends heavily on oil from the Middle East. On Monday, Saddam offered developing nations free oil if they would send their tankers to pick it up. Manila said it had already fulfilled its oil requirements, and Namibia said it would not "sell its sovereignty" for Iraqi oil. Their oil makes up 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. But according to the State Department, Cuba, which faces an oil deficit because of reduced Soviet deliveries, has received a shipment of Iraqi petroleum since U.N. sanctions were imposed five weeks ago. And Romania, it said, expects to receive oil indirectly from Iraq. 