At the moment, agents report more inquiries, but the markets in both countries are still quiet and prices low, especially in France. Far-sighted prospective buyers looking near Calais include hauliers wanting to set up a base on the Continent, and Asian entrepreneurs who see an advantage in being close to Belgium. The British are mainly looking for houses, rather than apartments, although French and Dutch buyers are also in the market. Inquiries about northern French property picked up just before Christmas, says Maggie Kelly, of French agents L'Abri-tanique in Hesdin. Growing confidence in the UK market is slowly stimulating interest in French property. UK buyers can now sell their UK home to put money into a main residence or second home in France. Prices have stopped falling in northern France and hopes are high that the tunnel, motorways and new railways will resuscitate the region. For example, a glorious, repossessed abbey with five acres in Tortefontaine, with a 12th century hall and many outbuildings, is on sale at around FFr750,000 (Pounds 86,000) from agents Latitudes or L'Abri-tanique. A house in Hesdin, or a nearby country cottage, make good weekend retreats and are far cheaper than their English equivalents. A small house in Montreuil, a walled town with cobbled streets, costs FFr280,000 from La Residence. A small, partly-restored farmhouse near Montreuil can be bought for FFr135,000 from A House in France. Latitudes has on its books an 18th century town house with internal courtyard for FFr1.3m, a snip when you think what you would pay in Paris. The French favourite is Le Touquet, still an elegant place for Parisians to spend le weekend. Penny Zoldan, of Latitudes, has a flat in Le Touquet and sees it as a good base for foreigners. Outside Le Touquet, A House in France offers a chateau complete with fortification wall and tunnels for FFr1.3m. In the countryside beyond Dieppe, a typical Norman house, restored and including most of the furniture and a cottage, is for sale for Pounds 125,000 from Domus Abroad. At the other end of the tunnel Cluttons reports Belgians and Dutch registering at the Canterbury office for period cottages for around Pounds 200,000, and French and Belgians at the Folkestone office - where David Parry reports that Arabs are interested in blocks of flats on the sea front. Once the tunnel is open, said Parry, industry will be attracted to the area and people will move in. Central and east Kent need a stimulus but it may take four or five years before there is any evidence of new opportunities in the area. 