The British terminal may be seen, or at least imagined, below a ledge of dewy grass near Dover, dotted with poppies and daisies, with church spires in one direction and the white cliffs in another. But the men staying here -- most of them migrant laborers from Ireland and northern England -- are rumored to earn as much as $1,750 a week. Inside the tunnel it is cold and wet and dark, but mainly it's big. Of the three tunnels -- two big ones for trains and another for service -- the smallest is the most advanced: They've bored more than 27 miles. We only hear of other machines, such as a giant pump in a 230-foot shaft that sucks the spoil slurry out of the tunnel, but we get some more big figures for the notebooks: Two thousand tons of spoil come out every hour; 500 tons of material go in; money, the press here reports, is being spent at a rate of $4.4 million a day. The 1986 treaty, which contains a clause prohibiting government subsidies for the tunnel, gave a 55-year concession to Eurotunnel, an Anglo-French partnership that commissioned Trans Manche Link, a consortium of five English contractors (Costain, Wimpey, Taylor Woodrow, Balfour Beatty and Tarmac) and five French (Boygues, Dumez, Societe Generale d'Entreprise, Societe Auxiliaire d'Entreprises, Spie Batignolles) to design and build the tunnel. The original forecast for the whole project was $8.5 billion; to the chagrin of the 206 banks involved, it now has reached $13.3 billion and many people estimate tunnel costs of $17.5 billion before we see the light at the end. Nineteen ninety-two may mean an end to duty-free goods, but the tunnel will be more than a symbol of European unity; it will, transport analysts say, reinforce historically dominant trading links in the London-Frankfurt-Milan so-called Golden Triangle, bolstering northern Europe as an economic entity at a time when its pre-eminence is being challenged by a strengthened Mediterranean sunbelt, stretching from Barcelona to Trieste, and by new opportunities to the east. For Mrs. Thatcher, in her way a choreographer or a sculptor, the monument may be seen in terms of negative space: The tunnel is perhaps her final proof that Britain's Victorian glory can be recaptured without spending a penny of public money. In the same week that the French government revealed its plans to spend 190 billion francs ($34 billion) on expanding its high-speed rail network, the prime minister announced that there will be no government subsidy for a fast train between London and the tunnel, in effect shelving plans for a much discussed new 70-mile link between London and Folkestone. While the number of French shareholders in the project has risen from 210,000 to 436,000, the number of British investors has remained at 100,000; and while 15,000 Kent residents marched on Westminster in protest against the desecration of their villages, there was keen competition among French towns to have the new fast train service run through their region. 