Thus began another chapter in one of medicine's most bizarre mysteries, a tale of sick sheep and mad cows, cannibals and Pennsylvanians, ancient life forms and a cat named Max. The question has burned with special intensity since scrapie, the form of the disease in sheep, jumped to British cattle a few years ago after they were fed ground-up parts of infected sheep. About 20,000 British cattle have been destroyed since 1986 in hopes of eradicating the spongiform mad cow disease, which makes the animals jittery before they keel over. A few weeks ago, the first confirmed case of mad cow disease outside Britain turned up in Switzerland. Scientists agree, however, that the disease in animals probably poses little danger to people. Scrapie has existed for centuries and the world is bathed in its infectious agent, says Dr. Gajdusek. Yet sheep have never been strongly implicated in cases of the human form of the disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, or CJD. At least not until the Poltar journalist and two other people died of CJD at about the same time in a rural, sheep-herding part of eastern Czechoslovakia. The area's equivalent of chicken soup for colds is sheep brain fried in onions. One CJD victim even slept with a pet sheep until age 13. Now villagers there call CJD our sheep disease. Indeed, CJD is a nefarious trickster; the first reported case of the disease, which entered medical texts in the 1920s, really wasn't CJD after all, scientists now believe. And it usually strikes so rarely and randomly -- killing about one in a million people world-wide each year -- that scientists didn't even begin to suspect it was infectious until 1957. That year, the NIH's Dr. Gajdusek, then a young scientist casting about for big questions, planned a trip to Papua New Guinea to visit a friend. Soon kuru victims' brains started issuing from the heart of darkness to distant medical centers, compliments of Dr. Gajdusek. He had seen that look before in scrapie, the sheep disease, and put in a call to the NIH. Another link fell into place when Igor Klatzo, an NIH scientist, noticed kuru brains resembled ones from CJD victims. Based on the clues, Dr. Gajdusek, back at NIH, led studies in the 1960s showing kuru, CJD and scrapie to be essentially the same infectious disease, studies that won the 1976 Nobel Prize for medicine. But the infectious agent continued to baffle scientists. Brain tissue of infected animals could transmit the disease when injected into different animals' brains, yet microscopes revealed no signs of infectious microbes. In the early 1980s, scientists discovered that CJD, like Alzheimer's disease, often gums up the brain with a kind of junk, or amyloid, protein. All this, however, doesn't explain what happened after Dr. Brown baked isolates of the disease agent for an hour at 680 degrees Fahrenheit, a temperature that melts proteins. He injected the ashy residue into animals' brains, expecting nothing to happen. But a few of them got spongiform disease. Still, Dr. Brown and other scientists aren't much worried about mad cows because their animal studies show spongiform disease is very hard to transmit orally. Perhaps the mad cows got such doses every time they went to the feedbag, says Dr. Brown. Examining his brain, a veterinarian found a telltale sponginess, sparking another round of panic in the U.K. about spongiform disease. Now more than 10 British cats have died of it, suggesting brains from infected sheep or cows got into cat food. During the past few months, the NIH team, working with Dr. Mitrova, has found a thread that for the first time may link many such CJD cases. But Dr. Brown's excitement grew when three other, unrelated CJD victims were found to carry the same genetic defect. Brown and Gajdusek knew just where to look for such people. But they also have introduced a new riddle, says Dr. Gajdusek: Why has the genetic defect, which has apparently existed for decades in some Eastern Europeans, turned deadly only in the past 15 years or so? 