Mr. Sununu, President Bush's chief of staff, is a combative, conservative Republican with a history of ambushing liberal Democrats like Sen. Yet Mr. Sununu has just finished going head to head with the Massachusetts senator -- and succeeding in negotiating an agreement on landmark legislation giving sweeping new rights to disabled Americans. In the end Mr. Sununu committed the White House's support to the legislation while winning some concessions to minimize the effects on small business -- and a mutually acceptable bill now is whisking through Congress. His boss, President Bush, is enjoying high public approval, important legislation is moving ahead and Mr. Sununu's relationship with the president is strong. Inside the administration, aides say Mr. Sununu has grown more relaxed, more willing to delegate responsibility and surprisingly content to play the role of a detached broker in policy debates. Many political analysts here believe that Mr. Sununu has moderated his brash style, and that the former governor has adjusted to his White House role. Moreover, Mr. Sununu is proving more adept than expected at reining in his personal views and instead brokering compromises among other advisers. Mr. Reilly recalls that in a private chat later, Mr. Sununu, an engineer in his own right, disclosed that he still harbored reservations about one small piece of the bill but had chosen not to push his personal view. Bush}, Mr. Sununu explained. This was particularly evident during the Tower debacle, when Mr. Sununu privately lashed out at Sam Nunn, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee who led the fight against Sen. And although the White House chief of staff has toned down since that early encounter, in a recent meeting with GOP House members, Mr. Sununu suggested that Republicans attack a crime package proposed by Democratic Sen. Biden does say that when Mr. Sununu has substantive differences with someone, the inclination is to respond with personal attacks -- which is bush league, no pun intended. Mr. Sununu also rankled some Republican congressional leaders by dressing them down at a recent White House meeting for failing to properly support Mr. Bush's programs. Mr. Sununu suggests that sometimes when he knocks heads he does so because it's part of the job of being the top aide to a president who doesn't like to knock heads himself. One group Mr. Sununu has generally succeeded in pleasing is conservatives, who view him as their champion in a generally moderate White House. But Mr. Sununu rejected that advice, ordered up a lengthy statement reiterating Mr. Bush's opposition to abortion, then read the statement personally to reporters. And whatever his relations with others, Mr. Sununu's most important relationship -- the one with President Bush -- appears sturdy. And Mr. Sununu is comfortable enough with Mr. Bush to pull an occasional practical joke. The other day, Mr. Sununu and two other advisers were sitting in front of Mr. Bush's desk waiting for the president. 