By the time checks were being written at the county level, the AP found, fellow farmers elected to locally administer federal agriculture programs were approving claims for such common perils as insects, sand, wind, cold and fungus, even "ineffective herbicide." "We lucked out last year on account of the boys up north," said Travis Turnipseed, a Levelland, Texas, cotton farmer who's had hail damage 23 out of the last 28 years, but collected cash for the first time in 1988. In the end, drought relief became a one-time bonus for thousands of farmers in parts of the country that in 1988 generally enjoyed good crops at higher prices and wouldn't have qualified as disaster areas, including parts of California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Maryland and New Jersey. Government officials say they did the best they could with a rushed program. Loopholes were tightened in 1989's smaller $1 billion drought relief program. "Some farmers just got grandfathered in, that's true," said Dan Shaw, deputy administrator of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, which administers payment programs for the Agriculture Department. Those growers profited by "triple-dipping": reaping crop insurance as well as drought aid on damaged crops, then replanting the same ground for a successful harvest _ all perfectly legal under the 1988 program. Disaster payments in several states also went to banks, corporations, investment firms, churches and even local governments such as the city of Littlefield, Texas, despite regulations designed to match benefits to small farmers. In several cases, corporations ineligible for drought relief because of the bill's $2 million cutoff on gross annual income collected anyway because they owned a stake in a farm. Despite all the apparent misapplications of aid, the program did provide crucial assistance to farmers wracked by severe drought. In North Dakota, the hardest-hit state, farmers lost an estimated $1.1 billion to the drought, but direct federal aid cut that by 36 percent, to $706 million. In Iowa the aid, calculated by the federal government at $335 million, went a long way, state agriculture secretary Dale Cochran said. To examine the program, the AP interviewed agriculture experts in 21 states then chose 14 states whose rainfall data and drought payments were matched county by county in a computer database. Because much of the ASCS paperwork never leaves the counties, reporters then traveled to 22 county offices in eight states to examine more detailed drought program files for 346 specific farmers, also available under the FOIA. One such farmer was Don Gresham, who raises cotton on 4,000 acres near Levelland. Gresham readily offers that he and his son operate their farms under five different names precisely because of federal payment limitations _ in the case of drought aid, $100,000 per farmer. Because of hail damage, Gresham and his companies collected $248,662 from the drought program, plus $159,478 from federal crop insurance. According to government program formulas, Gresham grossed nearly $100,000 more than had he grown his cotton successfully. 