Average citizens, the pollsters found, believe they simply are not being heard in Washington, and more and more are losing confidence in the electoral system as a means of influencing government. But a few days after the election, political analyst Alan Baron offered a revelation: For the first time since World War II the average re-election margin of House incumbents from both parties declined from the previous election. But in 1990, voters declared a plague on both parties' houses, underscoring what polls and other focus groups demonstrate: The disaffection with politicians isn't ideological. Term limits would accomplish few of their proponents' goals -- more-independentminded and less-beholden lawmakers -- and would result in many unintended consequences-far more power accruing to unelected staff and special-interest lobbyists. But there's little consensus among either politicians or the voters themselves on these issues. The nexus of many of the problems -- entrenched arrogance, more concern for powerful interests than average citizens and the obscene preoccupation with campaign contributions -- is the committee system. A powerful antidote would be to limit committee service, which would have few of the political and constitutional drawbacks of term limits. While both men are deeply dismayed at the current state of Congress, they see term limits as a cure worse than the illness. Term limits really hit at democracy, says Prof. Fenno. Mr. Ferris believes this would put a vitality in the system while not resulting, unlike overall term limits, in a bunch of neophytes who'd be more dependent on staff and lobbyists. Mr. Ferris notes that the current system, in which a lawmaker gets a cherished committee assignment in his first or second term and then stays there for the rest of his tenure, breeds staleness. If lawmakers had to change areas of expertise every three or four terms, they wouldn't have the luxury of being intellectually lazy. Currently, the Intelligence committees in both houses and the House Budget Committee limit members to six or eight years. 