The Mount Pinatubo volcano was slowly rousing from 600 years of sleep.; Two months ago, when the drama began, scientists knew almost nothing about this drowsy Philippine giant, swaddled in thick jungle and ignored by the hundreds of thousands of people living around its flanks.; They didn't know it had a habit of exploding with a force twice as great as the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington -- or that the debris from these eruptions had covered much of what was now Clark Air Base.; But with the first small signs of trouble, researchers went on alert, throwing a network of instruments around the restless mountain. And in a few frenzied weeks of investigation, they learned enough to recommend evacuation of some 84,000 people.; The warning came just in time. U.S. officials said the damage may lead them to permanently close Clark Air Base.; On Monday, scientists said much of the pressure inside the volcano had dissipated and the worst may be over.; Although Pinatubo never erupted into the cataclysmic blow-up that some had feared, the damage and death toll from related earthquakes, mudslides and falling ash and pumice could have been far higher had scientists not recommended evacuation. Researchers still use seismometers and other instruments to measure the trembling, quaking and bulging of the ground that often spell danger.; But the technology has improved immensely:; (check) Instruments are cheaper and more expendable, so they can be deployed where they will do the most good -- right in the path of the volcano's fury.; (check) The instruments continually beam data to scientists who are waiting a safe distance away. Before, they had to visit their instruments and collect the data by hand.; (check) Information is routinely analyzed by computer, allowing researchers to assess a situation quickly -- and to develop computer models for predicting the behavior of volcanoes.; Researchers have also made strides in interpreting what they see. It was a rather remarkable decade, really. ; Scientists say the eruption of Mount St. Helens, which killed 57 people and caused $1 billion in property damage, triggered a renaissance in volcano research.; It alerted the American public to volcano hazards and prompted a tenfold increase in government spending for volcano research and monitoring, said geologist Robert Tilling of USGS in Menlo Park.; As a result, the survey opened two new volcano observatories. One, in Washington, keeps track of active volcanoes in the Cascades Range of the Pacific Northwest and Northern California, including Mount St. Helens, Mount Rainier, Mount Hood, Mount Baker, Mount Shasta and Mount Lassen. Such a quick response is crucial because only a few dozen of the world's 500 active volcanoes have been adequately investigated and monitored.; Now, Tilling said, we can go in there and literally overnight set up a seismic network, and start getting data within a day or two. ; The blossoming research has in turn spurred development of cheaper and more rugged instruments.; Take tiltmeters.; Like glorified carpenters' levels, they are used to measure the bulging and tilting of the ground as magma muscles its way toward the surface.; A decade ago they cost thousands of dollars each. Now tiltmeters are inexpensive enough to place in areas likely to get wiped out in eruptions.; The humble seismometer has also grown more useful as scientists learn to better interpret what it's saying.; Volcanoes are probably the most complex structures you can find on this planet, said Bernard Chouet, a seismologist at the USGS in Menlo Park.; It's not unusual for them to produce thousands of small earthquakes -- but those quakes can have a variety of causes. These patterns were successfully used to forecast the 1989 eruption of Redoubt Volcano in Alaska, as well as the current eruptions at Pinatubo.; But even though volcano warnings have proved far more accurate than earthquake forecasts, they're far from foolproof.; Some volcanoes give virtually no warning. Surveying: Researchers measure the volcano, with optical instruments or high-tech laser tools, to see if it is bulging or stretching as a result of magma rising inside. Volcanoes often produce swarms of small earthquakes. Researchers are learning to distinguish ordinary earthquakes from those caused by magma rising toward the surface -- a sign of impending eruption.; 4. 