Rising welfare spending has been a significant factor in the average increase in net state borrowing of 3 percentage points of GDP across the OECD between 1989 and 1992. In the longer term, there are fears that the cost of the welfare state could become insupportable as populations age over the next 50 years. Reform of national welfare systems to bring costs under control is now on the political agenda throughout the OECD, as countries struggle to rein in government spending. The biggest element in this growth has been the cost of pensions, healthcare, unemployment benefits and family support. The largest single budget item in most welfare states is the cost of publicly provided pensions. Improvements in pension benefits, such as automatic increases to match rising earnings. The ageing of the population has also contributed to rising costs, though not as much as for pensions. Rising unemployment has added to the cost of the welfare state in both unemployment benefits and general family support for low-income families. Most OECD countries have recognised the need to curb growth in these main areas of welfare spending during the 1980s, and have introduced policies to tackle the underlying causes. Moves are afoot in countries such as Germany and Italy to raise the pension age. Some countries have succeeded in stabilising their welfare costs by measures such as these. Increases in life expectancy have already increased the number of elderly people collecting pensions. The number of over-65s in the 24 OECD member states rose from 61m in 1960 to more than 100m in 1990. The strain that this will put on the welfare state can best be seen by relating it to expected trends in the number of people of working age. Some countries face much greater pressures from the ageing of their populations than others. Age dependency ratios will climb more slowly in the UK and US, to about 25 per cent in 2020 - four people of working age to support every elderly person. In both countries, ratios will peak at about 33 per cent in 2040. Real economic growth rates of up to 1.5 per cent a year would be needed to pay for pensions alone - and that on the assumption that the pensions do not increase in real terms. Other changes in social structure are also pushing up the demands on the welfare state. Lone-parent families now typically constitute 10-15 per cent of of all families with children in OECD countries. Added to concerns over demography and social change are fears over the increase in unemployment levels across the OECD. Continuing rises in the base level of unemployment would further undermine countries' ability to pay for their welfare states. Responses to these cost pressures vary from country to country. In a global economy, no country can long afford to burden business with higher welfare costs than its neighbours. An alternative response to cost pressures would be further increases in borrowing to fund the welfare state. The OECD's immediate priorities for reform include charges for the use of some welfare services and greater competition to increase the efficiency of those services. Tackling these longer-term pressures will require more than tinkering with charges and efficiency drives in welfare services. They could rise to cover a much larger part of the costs of welfare services. And the demands put on the welfare state might be eased by encouraging more private provision of pensions and healthcare. Measures such as these would fundamentally change the nature of the welfare state, however. But a new glue will be needed over the next 50 years if advanced economies are to pass beyond the welfare state. 