The step was taken in disregard of repeated persuasion by China and the aspirations of all the social strata in Hong Kong for a settlement of the electoral arrangements through talks. Over the past two days, the British side also published a white paper and unilaterally made public the contents of last year's 17 rounds of Sino-British talks on the arrangements for the 1994-1995 elections in Hong Kong. These actions fully show that the British side has closed the door of negotiations between the two sides and is finally taking a road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system. Then Britain, under all sorts of pressure, agreed to hold talks with China in April last year on the arrangements for elections for 1994/1995 in Hong Kong. Even so, China made it clear repeatedly that for the Chinese side the door for negotiations was open, with the prerequisite that the British side must withdraw the submitted partial bill from the Legco. The British side time and again said that Patten's political bill was aimed at promoting Hong Kong's prosperity and stability and completely considered the aspirations of the Hong Kong residents. However, Patten hurriedly put forward his political reform bill less than three months after he began to serve as Hong Kong governor, without absorbing opinions from the Hong Kong residents. More serious was that, despite strong appeals from Hong Kong residents for the settlement of the electoral arrangements through talks, the political reform bill submitted by Patten was passed. The Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law stipulate that the British administration of Hong Kong will terminate on June 30, 1997, and the Chinese Government will resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong as of July 1, 1997. In accordance with these provisions, the Chinese side has reiterated that as component parts of the British political body administering Hong Kong, the last British-Hong Kong district boards, the two municipal polls and the Legislative Council will definitely be terminated together with the end of the British administration of Hong Kong. Before the Chinese and British sides reach an agreement on the arrangements for the 1994/1995 elections, the three-level bodies produced on the basis of the partial electoral bill passed by the British-Hong Kong Legco or any other electoral bill possibly yet to be passed by the Legco cannot remain beyond the year 1997. No matter how far the British side will walk along the road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system, it absolutely cannot prevent the progress of history. China holds that as long as the Hong Kong compatriots and the mainland people closely cooperate and completely implement the principle of one country, two systems , the future of Hong Kong will be bright. 