In an interview with the media on the last day of his stay in Australia, he went so far as to say that Chinese officials do not understand the international status and importance of Hong Kong so their criticism of him does not conform to reality, adding that Hong Kong is an international asset as well as China's asset. Though he repeatedly argued in his defense that he did not go to Australia in search of support for his constitutional package, the fact he talked a great deal about his constitutional package and requested Australia to pass on genuine democracy to Hong Kong reveals that he visited Australia to seek international support for this constitutional package, of which the first part will be put to the vote, after his constitutional package had drawn sharp criticism and came in for questioning at the British Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee hearings. In saying Hong Kong is an international asset, Patten intentionally evaded the problem of to whom Hong Kong belongs. According to Patten, since Hong Kong is an international asset, it belongs to the international community, namely, it is shared by every country in the world or at least it is an independent or semi-independent political entity, over which China cannot exercise sovereignty. Does this not clearly show that China's sovereignty over Hong Kong was evaded or even denied? How can China's sovereignty over Hong Kong be evaded! Though Britain has ruled over Hong Kong for one and a half centuries, the fact that Hong Kong is China's sacred territory will never change. What merits attention is that this was not the first time Patten has referred to Hong Kong as an international asset. In early May last year, he openly alleged that Hong Kong was an international asset in a speech in Washington. Patten's allegation that the Chinese side does not understand Hong Kong's international status is entirely nonsense. How can Patten be compared with the Chinese Government where the understanding of Hong Kong's international status and its importance are concerned. It is because the Chinese Government has a profound and accurate understanding of Hong Kong's past and present state, and its international status, that it was able to advance a series of principles and policies including one country, two systems, allowing Hong Kong people to administer Hong Kong and enjoy a high degree of autonomy, and so on to solve Hong Kong problems. Hong Kong is ranked among the biggest international cities and has become one of the international economic, trade, financial, and shipping centers but this will never change the fact that it is part of Chinese territory. What Patten has said and done since he arrived in Hong Kong, including the international card, has been designed to meticulously carry through the third step laid down by the British Government. Patten has acted this way since he came to Hong Kong. During his recent trip to Australia, apart from saying that Hong Kong was an international asset, he claimed that for various countries to support Hong Kong in expanding democracy is not equivalent to interfering in China's internal affairs. He also called on the international community to see to it that China honor its commitment after 1997 and alleged that Britain bears a moral responsibility for Hong Kong, and so on. Nevertheless, it is internationally accepted that while the Hong Kong issue is a matter for both China and Britain before 1997, it is purely a Chinese internal affair after 1997. So any attempts by Patten and Britain to make the Hong Kong issue an international one are doomed to failure. 