Currently on the Federal Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C., Judge Bork is recognized as perhaps this country's most distinguished judicial scholar. Commenting on Judge Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court, Geoffrey Stone, dean of the University of Chicago Law School, called it a four-star appointment and commented that it was rare to get anyone with anywhere near his credentials. Indeed, when Judge Bork was nominated for the appeals court post in 1981, the Senate unanimously approved. The Constitution, however, commands a neutral-principled approach to judicial decision making, and a Bork confirmation would help restore the balance among the three branches of government the framers so carefully crafted. Two hundred years ago in Philadelphia, the delegates to the Constitutional Convention considered a proposal to join executive and judicial authority in a council of revision - a body that would have authority to reject and reshape laws enacted by the legislature. More than 150 years earlier, Francis Bacon had warned judges to remember that their office is jus dicere, and not jus dare; to interpret law, and not to make law, or give law. Law making -- policy making -- by judges has become so pervasive that, of late, many see it as the judicial function against which potential judges must be measured. This is how he put it in a September 1985 interview, which appeared in Judicial Notice: The job of a judge is to understand the principle that the framers were trying to protect, and apply that principle in today's circumstances, which the framers could not have foreseen. Far from being ideologically partisan, as some have charged, Judge Bork holds fast to a neutral-principled approach irrespective of whose ox is being gored: The sin of wanting judges to do good things simply because the electorate won't do them, he explained in the same interview, is not confined to liberalism. In many respects, the judiciary has become the master branch of government because we have permitted judges' personal views to supplant the rule of established law. Judge Bork's elevation to the Supreme Court would help restore a proper constitutional balance. 