But even as Memphians whoop it up, the prediction that the Big One may come in December is triggering tremors up and down the Mississippi Valley. Shaken, thousands of people are crowding into earthquake survival classes. In Missouri and Arkansas, some schools and businesses have announced plans to close in early December. In 1811 and 1812, along a 120-mile zig-zag formation called the New Madrid fault, a series of quakes ravaged the Midwest. They were more than 10 times greater than the 7.1 quake that rocked California's Bay Area last October. The New Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid) fault still has 150 small, mostly unfelt, earthquakes a year. In the next 10 years, experts warn, the area has a 33% chance of a quake measuring 7.1. We're overdue for one in the 6s and low 7s, says David Stewart, an earthquake expert at Southeast Missouri State University. Over the years, a few pinpoint-on-the map towns have tried to capitalize on the little-known fault. Iben Browning, a 72-year-old scientist, predicted October's Bay Area quake a week before it happened, say people who heard him speak to the Equipment Manufacturers Institute. Since 1971, Mr. Browning says, he has picked the correct dates of four large earthquakes, two volcanoes -- and one day with both a volcano and an earthquake. The New Madrid area has a 50-50 chance of producing at least a 7 quake on Dec. At that time, a similar quake has a lesser chance of occurring on California's San Andreas or Hayward faults, according to Mr. Browning, and an 8.2 quake in Tokyo has a greater chance. No responsible scientist can predict an exact day for an earthquake, says Brian Mitchell, a quake expert at St. Louis University, echoing the majority opinion. He has a methodology that can determine, plus or minus a window of a day or two, an enhanced probability of a volcano or an earthquake in certain latitudes, says Mr. Stewart. If one is a business consultant, they don't pay you for being wrong. Plenty of other business people are cashing in on his prediction. Insurance salespeople are peddling earthquake coverage to homeowners and businesses. Salespeople from a Memphis company pop up at survival seminars with a device (for $259 and up) that turns off gas lines when a quake hits. So many people plan to skip town on Dec. Robert Edwards, a Blytheville fireman who teaches seminars in earthquake survival, has become a hot property. For five years, most of his classes were lightly attended. Scared that the big Memphis-Arkansas bridge that spans the Mississippi River will collapse in a quake, she's charting an alternate route two hours out of her way. Trying to calm the fear, the National Earthquake Prediction Evaluation Council, a panel of academic and government seismic experts, will review the Browning claim at a meeting in a few weeks. In 11 years of studying prediction methods, the panel has found no bona fide approach. The group usually ignores claims that aren't scientifically documented (like the one by the California man who said his goldfish helped him predict quakes). That will kill more people than earthquakes. 