-- More than 90% of police chiefs and sheriffs surveyed agree that criminals are not affected by a ban on any type of firearm, while more than 70% oppose waiting periods for the same reason. -- A prisoner survey conducted by James D. Wright et al. found that unarmed felons listed tougher penalties for using a gun as an important reason for not arming themselves. -- 75%-80% of U.S. violent crimes are committed by career criminals, many on some form of conditional or early release (30%-35% of career criminals are rearrested with previous criminal charges still pending). -- Gary Kleck found that using a gun for protection from violent crime -- rape, robbery, assault -- reduces the likelihood that the crime will be completed and that intended victims will be injured. Clearly, the issue at hand is not gun control but, rather, crime control. According to Mr. Gartner, this year about 3,000 teen-agers... will use handguns to kill themselves. Is how these people killed themselves the real issue, or is why more important? The reason Washington has yet to enact serious gun-control laws is due to the enormous voting and financial pressure of the pro-gun lobby. Mr. Gartner has now made it abundantly clear that his goal is the elimination of handguns from our society. I find it incongruous that the president of NBC News, a man who should believe in the broadening of constitutional rights, obviously has no regard for the Second Amendment rights to keep and bear arms. Mr. Gartner ignores the key issues regarding suicide and crime. As evidenced by New York City and Washington, which have the nation's strictest gun-control laws and virtually ban the ownership of handguns by law-abiding citizens, Mr. Gartner's placebo doesn't work because it ignores the root causes of suicide and crime. Furthermore, Madison makes it clear that state militias, by the fact of their being organized, would give private arms their greatest effectiveness in the resistance to tyranny. Thus the well-organized militia phrase in the Second Amendment was not intended to restrict arms to those in the militia -- as the anti-gun lobby would have us believe. 