Shining Path guerrillas, who started their bloody uprising in the mountains eight years ago, are moving into the shantytowns that encircle the capital like a noose. Abimael Guzman, founder of the rebel movement, has said of the slums and their people: "The immense masses of the shantytowns are like belts of steel that lock in the enemy and hold back his reactionary forces." His Maoist rebels, once secretive fanatics, are becoming a political force that seeks public support in Huaycan and the other makeshift communities where two-thirds of Lima's 7 million people scrape along. Most residents are poor migrants from the violent highlands where the rebel movement was born. Shining Path's move into a more public role, and through most of Peru from its Andean base in Ayacucho province, has coincided with economic collapse and annual inflation of nearly 2,000 percent. More than 12,000 people have been killed in the civil war, most of them Andean peasants slain by rebels or security forces, and official figures put damage to the shattered economy at $10 billion. "Most evaluations of Sendero Luminoso's eight-year expansion under the democratic system... have become increasingly grim," the Andean Report, a respected economic journal, said recently. His movement, a splinter group of the Communist Party, gathered strength in Indian communities of the southern Andes for 10 years before launching its guerrilla war. Guzman's guerrillas have followed tens of thousands of peasants from the Andes into Lima's shantytowns and see the slums as a new stronghold. In July, the pro-Shining Path newspaper El Diario published a 48-page report on the guerrilla movement. It quoted Guzman as saying in his first interview since going underground in 1980: "We had to follow the road from the countryside to the city. Shining Path has infiltrated 167 unions and neighborhood associations in the Lima slums this year, says a confidential Interior Ministry report obtained by The Associated Press. Guerrillas threaten and sometimes kill community leaders, establish "people's schools" and set up "street theaters" for propaganda, it said. I have been in a shantytown where there is a Shining Path group, and the police are doing nothing about it." Huaycan is one of the slums where Shining Path works hardest because it is just off the Central Highway, a strategic route through the capital's main industrial zone to the mountains. The highway ties Lima to the agricultural lands of the central Andes and Peru's most important mines, where unions threatened by the Shining Path have conducted a strike since late October that costs millions of dollars a day in export earnings. 