It was a scene that recalled the golden days for Ben Johnson. Johnson was as before, shy and yet brimming with confidence. Johnson will at last get his chance to do that. Johnson was also suspended from competition for two years; that suspension ends today. 11 that will mark Johnson's return to competition. 1 athlete in the sport was using drugs. Charlie Francis, who coached Johnson for 12 years, estimated that steroids made Johnson faster by one meter. How much ground will Johnson lose as a drug-free sprinter? I want to take back the titles and the records I have been deprived of, the Associated Press quoted Johnson as saying. BIG MONEY Promoters of indoor meets this season doubt that Johnson will regain his records, but they hope that fans will turn out in huge numbers to watch him try. Indeed, in a season that holds the promise of high performance levels in general (as athletes peak for the world indoor championships in Seville, Spain, in March), Johnson's return to competition might help rejuvenate a sport in need of public interest. Al Franken, promoter of the Sunkist Invitational, is close to signing Johnson for his Jan. Ben sort of transcends the sport, and, God knows, we need someone to transcend the sport. Transcendent is the word for the appearence fees Johnson will reportedly earn. But American meet directors say they can't pay that kind of money, especially for an unproven runner. If he's eligible to compete, to me, Ben Johnson is an attraction, said Ray Lumpp, meet director for the indoor meet at the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J.. I'd like to have Ben Johnson regardless of how he runs. You're only as good as your last race, and the fans know that. Howard Schmertz of the Millrose Games in New York has an interest in Johnson, but perhaps not the budget. If you give him $10,000 and people are beating him, you could have problems. Hamilton promoter Gaines has heard it before, and makes no apology for paying Johnson more than other athletes. Right now, I can't think of anybody who would arouse as much interest as Ben Johnson. It would be ironic if Johnson becomes the star who revitalizes indoor track and field after being blamed for the steady decline of sponsor interest in outdoor track. There has been damage to the sport and people want to blame Ben personally for that damage, Gaines said. Some meet directors report concern that longtime sponsors will be reluctant to be associated with a meet that has Johnson as its marquee athlete, given Johnson's former association with anabolic steroids. I can't say that it's wrong, especially when deep down I know Johnson's not the only one who's ever taken drugs. One thing that may not happen is a much-discussed lucrative match race between Johnson and Lewis. A NEW CAST Johnson, 28, has passed at least four drug tests during his suspension. Many of those around Johnson have changed, too. Futerman limits Johnson's contact with the media, saying Ben has said all he has to say. However, it was Futerman who offered to permit a British journalist to interview Johnson -- if he paid $10,000 and submitted his questions in advance. Johnson gave an in-depth interview to the German magazine, Sport, but only after being paid. He still is awaiting word from the Canadian Olympic Assn., which placed a lifetime ban on Johnson that prohibited him from representing Canada in the Olympic Games. That may go a long way to easing Johnson back into a sport that disowned him almost as swiftly as he burst on the scene. Similarly, Johnson was erased from track and field's record books. The IAAF voted last September to adopt the controversial Ben Johnson Rule allowing the IAAF Council to decertify an athlete's records, titles and results if he or she later is shown to have used a banned substance before those performances. Even though Johnson admitted to having taken drugs since 1981, the rule carries a six-year statue of limitations. The rule stripped Johnson of his world record of 9.83 in the 100 meters and 6.41 in the indoor 60 meters. The question remains, is Ben Johnson capable of running at that brilliant level again? If the public will pay to watch Johnson is another question. Will he be the same Johnson? 