Unfortunately, there is the Second Amendment to the Constitution: A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed. Since the amendment's stated purpose is arming state militias, they reason, it creates no individual right to own a gun. The purpose of the First Amendment's free-speech guarantee was pretty clearly to protect political discourse. True, that purpose is not inscribed in the amendment itself. But why leap to the conclusion that a broadly worded constitutional freedom ( the right of the people to keep and bear arms ) is narrowly limited by its stated purpose, unless you're trying to explain it away? A colleague says that if liberals interpreted the Second Amendment the way they interpret the rest of the Bill of Rights, there would be law professors arguing that gun ownership is mandatory. The most thorough parsing of the Second Amendment is a 1983 article in the Michigan Law Review by Don Kates, a gun enthusiast. The fact that once upon a time everyone was a member of the militia doesn't prove that everyone still has a right to a gun even after the composition of the militia has changed. The phrase right of the people appears four other times in the Bill of Rights (including the First Amendment). Kates also marshals impressive historical evidence that the Second Amendment, like other Bill of Rights protections, was intended to incorporate English common law rights of the time, which pretty clearly included the right to keep a gun in your home for reasons having nothing to do with the militia. Of course the existence of an individual right to own guns doesn't mean that it is absolute. He says that the amendment places no limit on mandatory registration or laws against concealed weapons in public. The downside of having a Bill of Rights is that the protection of individual rights usually entails social costs. Gun nuts are unconvincing (at least to me) in their attempts to argue that the individual right to bear arms is still as vital to freedom as it was in 1792. 