This is the Central Selling Organization, London-based marketing arm of the De Beers diamond empire, controlled by the wealthy Oppenheimer family of South Africa. "This year is going to be a critical one for De Beers," says Diamond Intelligence Briefs, a trade publication. De Beers' South African interests face an uncertain future, largely because of a newly energized political will by the black majority in that country, an important diamond producer. After growth spurts of 19 percent in 1987 and 35 percent in 1988, rough diamond sales fell 2 percent to $4.09 billion last year because of slowing economies, high interest rates and the organization's two double-digit price increases in 1988 and 1989. The organization must this year renegotiate five-year contracts with Botswana, the second biggest diamond producer in terms of value, and Argyle Diamonds of Western Australia, the biggest producer in terms of quantity. Jack Lunzer, managing director of IDC Ltd., an independent diamond distributor in London, said De Beers undoubtedly will continue to control the major part of world production, but its marketing arm's profits will fall. Few diamond-producing countries dare sell their output outside the organization, and some bold enough to leave have returned because of the difficulty in peddling diamonds alone. "We are as strongly in control of the diamond market as we have been for many years," said Tim Capon, the cartel's director. The organization buys rough diamonds from De Beers' own mines, which represent 30 percent of world production, and from producers in Tanzania, South Africa, Zaire, Botswana, Namibia, Australia and the Soviet Union. Ten times a year, at sales called "sights," the clients are offered a selection of diamonds chosen by the organization and placed in a simple cardboard box. Of all diamonds mined, only 15 percent will end up in jewelry, but these represent 80 percent of the value of the world's diamond production. Today, diamonds remain "the gem of gems," although millions of people own them. De Beers insists it seeks long-term stability and prosperity for the industry, saying price fluctuations would undermine confidence in the value of diamonds. While other commodities markets have suffered repeated convulsions, rough diamond prices haven't fallen since the organization started announcing price changes in 1964. During the early 1980s, when high interest rates caused the worst diamond slump since the 1930s, the organization prevented the market's collapse by doubling its diamond stockpile to nearly $2 billion worth. Sir Ernest Oppenheimer, a diamond merchant, became chairman of De Beers in 1929 and five years later formed Diamond Trading Co., the precursor of today's cartel. Oppenheimer, who linked the diamond business with his extensive Anglo American Corp. gold-mining interests, is credited with steering De Beers through the Depression. Now 81, Oppenheimer still serves on De Beers' board of directors, of which he previously was chairman. 