Mr Philip Tose, the maverick Hong Kong financier, once offered Britain's Tory party Pounds 5m to remove Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor. With the battle over electoral reform ended, and less than 1,000 days to go before the handover on June 30 1997, the die is cast. 'Mr Patten is the governor and the representative of the Hong Kong British government,' says one senior Chinese official in Hong Kong. And Chinese officials in Hong Kong indicate a desire to deal with the nitty-gritty of the transfer at a meeting of the Joint Liaison Group, a bilateral body with Britain, this month. But Hong Kong's passage from British colony to a 'special administrative region' of China still seems likely to be dogged by controversy. The importance of morale among the colony's 180,000 civil servants is acknowledged by Chinese officials. Take school text books, which have recently emerged as an issue because some pro-Beijing figures in Hong Kong do not believe that the current texts used in schools are sufficiently 'patriotic'. 'We are not suggesting any change to the curriculum,' says Mr Tsang Yok Sing, a leading Beijing adviser in Hong Kong who is himself a school headmaster. 'We sent a selection of textbooks to Beijing and they were shocked... by references to Taiwan as the Republic of China, the People's Republic as a neighbour, and the glossing over of Britain's role in the Opium War.' The through train encapsulated the hope that those elected in 1995 to the Legislative Council (LegCo), Hong Kong's 60-member law making body, would be able to serve their full four-year term, regardless of the 1997 handover. After the dispute on electoral reform, Beijing announced that it would dismiss the 1995 LegCo once China resumed sovereignty of Hong Kong, and replace it with a provisional legislature. This decision is set to take Hong Kong into uncharted waters, and casts doubt over the continuity of the colony's legal system. The colonial government had planned to hand over by introducing a piece of midnight legislation to eliminate all references in Hong Kong law to institutions such as the governor and the Queen. However, the Basic Law - the China-drafted mini-constitution for post-1997 Hong Kong - does not provide for a provisional legislature as such, although it does foresee a 'preparatory committee' to be formed in 1996 that will determine who sits in this legislature. Mr Tsang, a member of the Chinese government committee planning for the handover, says the provisional legislature will have full powers to make laws for an expected term of nine to 12 months. A strong showing by Hong Kong's pro-democracy groups, led by Mr Martin Lee's Democratic party, will be seen as a protest vote against Beijing. 'At least one senior Chinese official has said to me he believes there is no change of restoring co-operation and trust unless and until we have a new governor,' says Mr Tsang. Mr Patten is adamant that he is not leaving Hong Kong until he has discharged his duty. China's supporters in the colony claim that Mr Patten's policy is now to make Hong Kong harder to govern by 'loosening the screws' before the British leave. Britain used such ordinances to control Hong Kong but does not want to leave them on the statute books for the incoming regime. Mr Zhou Nan, the most senior representative of the Chinese Communist party and government in Hong Kong, recently attacked Mr Patten's plans for a government-funded pension, saying: 'During the transition period, we should not casually transplant a costly Euro-socialist pay-as-you-go concept to Hong Kong without prudently taking into consideration similar western programmes' long-standing track record of grossly under-estimating liabilities and grossly over-estimating funding projections.' Mr Patten claims that by 1997 public spending in Hong Kong as a percentage of GDP will be lower than it was in 1982 - the year Britain began handover negotiations with China. 'I don't think Hong Kong needs lectures on how to run an economy or how to control public spending,' he says. One Chinese banker says: 'Hong Kong will become less free; more like Singapore. In Mrs Wu's view: 'There is no absolute guarantee for Hong Kong that the 1984 Sino-British joint declaration will be met. 