IT IS ironic that there is an unprecedented, greedy rush for diamonds by miners in Angola and Canada precisely at a time when the diamond business is in turmoil and questions are inevitably being asked about the ability of the world's most successful cartel to keep its tight grip on the market. More than Dollars 1m-worth of gem diamonds a day are being smuggled out of that country for sale in Antwerp. This rise of illegal mining, particularly in the Cuango region, which produces 80 per cent of Angola's diamonds and some of its highest-quality gem stones, started in May, 1991, after the peace accord which allowed freedom of movement for the first time in 16 years. The cartel has survived partly because nobody needs diamonds. But the cartel has ensured that rough (uncut) diamond prices have risen steadily since the 1930s - even when in the depths of the 1981-86 recession the price of a top-quality, one carat gem diamond slumped in the retail market from Dollars 60,000 to Dollars 10,000. The cartel is organised by De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organisation, which markets about 80 per cent of the world's rough diamonds. Apart from De Beers' own production from Namibia and South Africa, the CSO handles rough gem diamonds from Angola, Australia, Botswana, Russia, Tanzania and Zaire. The CSO has been mopping up as many of the smuggled Angolan diamonds as possible to stop havoc being created in a business already suffering severely from soggy demand in the US and Japan, the two biggest markets, which share about two-thirds of demand between them. De Beers releases a controlled stream of rough diamonds to the market through 'sights' offered by the CSO ten times a year to about 160 selected buyers. They are offered boxes of diamonds, each worth between Dollars 500,000 and Dollars 25m. 'What the CSO for many years has done successfully, is to operate a buffer pool, stocking diamonds in bad times and liquidating its stocks when demand is in excess of the level of supply. But De Beers makes huge profits from its diamond business - a record Dollars 1.24bn in 1990 and more than Dollars 1bn last year. The CSO's diamond stocks, worth under Dollars 1bn in 1980 rose to Dollars 1.9bn by 1984. Hundreds of diamond investment trusts and traders were bankrupted at that time and Australia and Zaire challenged De Beers' near-monopoly. Diamond sales in value terms jumped by 20 per cent in 1987 and another 37 per cent the following year. It must be open to question whether another Japan can be found to lift the diamond market as the present recession ends. But in the meantime Mr Julian Ogilvie Thompson, De Beers' chairman, insists that the CSO's control of the diamond market is not slipping. 'By mopping up Angolan supplies we can say that more of the world's rough diamonds are passing through the CSO than ever before,' he says. The future of De Beers' diamond operations in Namibia were discussed with the government there yesterday. 