     The Mount Pinatubo volcano was slowly rousing from 600 years of sleep.;   
Two months ago, when the drama began, scientists knew almost nothing about
this drowsy Philippine giant, swaddled in thick jungle and ignored by the
hundreds of thousands of people living around its flanks.;    They didn't know
it had a habit of exploding with a force twice as great as the 1980 eruption
of Mount St. Helens in Washington -- or that the debris from these eruptions
had covered much of what was now Clark Air Base.;    But with the first small
signs of trouble, researchers went on alert, throwing a network of instruments
around the restless mountain. And in a few frenzied weeks of investigation,
they learned enough to recommend evacuation of some 84,000 people.;    The
warning came just in time. A series of violent eruptions has rocked the
mountain since Wednesday, blowing ash and pumice 80,000 feet in the air and
sifting volcanic grit over villages 90 miles away. At least 101 people have
been killed, 150,000 Filipinos have crowded into refugee centers in Manila and
20,000 American military dependents and civilian workers are being evacuated
from the country. U.S. officials said the damage may lead them to permanently
close Clark Air Base.;    On Monday, scientists said much of the pressure
inside the volcano had dissipated and the worst may be over.;    Although
Pinatubo never erupted into the cataclysmic blow-up that some had feared, the
damage and death toll from related earthquakes, mudslides and falling ash and
pumice could have been far higher had scientists not recommended evacuation.
The successful forecast points up just how far the science of volcanoes has
come in the past decade.;    The basics are the same. Researchers still use
seismometers and other instruments to measure the trembling, quaking and
bulging of the ground that often spell danger.;    But the technology has
improved immensely:;    (check) Instruments are cheaper and more expendable,
so they can be deployed where they will do the most good -- right in the path
of the volcano's fury.;    (check) The instruments continually beam data to
scientists who are waiting a safe distance away. Before, they had to visit
their instruments and collect the data by hand.;    (check) Information is
routinely analyzed by computer, allowing researchers to assess a situation
quickly -- and to develop computer models for predicting the behavior of
volcanoes.;    Researchers have also made strides in interpreting what they
see. "Our biggest improvement has been in our own heads," said Peter Lipman, a
volcanologist with the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park.;    These skills
were honed in a series of volcanic disasters that rocked the world over the
past decade.;    "The 1980s was a very interesting decade because of the
number of eruptions that have occurred for which we have good monitoring
information," said Steven Brantley, a geologist with the survey's Cascades
Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Wash. "It was a rather remarkable decade,
really.";    Scientists say the eruption of Mount St. Helens, which killed 57
people and caused $1 billion in property damage, triggered a renaissance in
volcano research.;    It alerted the American public to volcano hazards and
prompted a tenfold increase in government spending for volcano research and
monitoring, said geologist Robert Tilling of USGS in Menlo Park.;    As a
result, the survey opened two new volcano observatories. One, in Washington,
keeps track of active volcanoes in the Cascades Range of the Pacific Northwest
and Northern California, including Mount St. Helens, Mount Rainier, Mount
Hood, Mount Baker, Mount Shasta and Mount Lassen. The second is in Alaska,
where Redoubt Volcano put on a spectacular show in 1989 and 1990. A third
observatory has been operating in Hawaii since 1912.;    American scientists
have since responded to a number of volcanic awakenings throughout the world,
from Galunggung in Indonesia to Nevado del Ruiz in Colombia, improving their
ability to quickly evaluate volcano hazards. Such a quick response is crucial
because only a few dozen of the world's 500 active volcanoes have been
adequately investigated and monitored.;    "Now," Tilling said, "we can go in
there and literally overnight set up a seismic network, and start getting data
within a day or two.";    The blossoming research has in turn spurred
development of cheaper and more rugged instruments.;    Take tiltmeters.;   
Like glorified carpenters' levels, they are used to measure the bulging and
tilting of the ground as magma muscles its way toward the surface.;    A
decade ago they cost thousands of dollars each. But after Mount St. Helens
blew, scientists looked for cheaper models. One was developed by James
Westphal, a well-known astronomer and gadgeteer at the California Institute of
Technology, who patterned it after an idea used in missile guidance systems.
Now tiltmeters are inexpensive enough to place in areas likely to get wiped
out in eruptions.;    The humble seismometer has also grown more useful as
scientists learn to better interpret what it's saying.;    "Volcanoes are
probably the most complex structures you can find on this planet," said
Bernard Chouet, a seismologist at the USGS in Menlo Park.;    It's not unusual
for them to produce thousands of small earthquakes -- but those quakes can
have a variety of causes. Most are innocuous, caused by the cracking of rock
above pools of magma that, for the moment, aren't going anywhere. But others
are ominous, reflecting the surge of magma toward the surface in preparation
for an eruption.;    In the past few years, Chouet said, seismologists have
learned to recognize distinctive tremors that mean an eruption is on its way.
These patterns were successfully used to forecast the 1989 eruption of Redoubt
Volcano in Alaska, as well as the current eruptions at Pinatubo.;    But even
though volcano warnings have proved far more accurate than earthquake
forecasts, they're far from foolproof.;    Some volcanoes give virtually no
warning. Even when they do, the decision to evacuate is difficult and
expensive. In the Philippines, for instance, vandals looted parts of Clark Air
Base that were left unguarded. Factories and businesses shut down; crops and
livestock were left unattended.;    This time the evacuation paid off,
possibly averting a number of deaths. But it won't always. In the end, every
volcano is a rugged individualist, with its own distinct patterns of activity.
Some wake up, make threatening noises for weeks or months, then drift back to
sleep.;    The burden of deciding whether to warn the public weighs heavily on
scientists.;    Randall White, another seismologist with the USGS in Menlo
Park, recalled how he felt while working near the freezing summit of
Colombia's Nevado del Ruiz six years ago.;    Struggling to hear their
instruments above the noise of nearby broadcast towers, he and his colleagues
warned local officials that an eruption was on its way. But their warnings
were vain. For reasons that are still unclear, the officials did not order an
evacuation, and 22,000 people died after lava spewed from the volcano, melting
glaciers and forming devastating mudslides.;    "I found it nerve-racking,"
White said. "We were literally afraid to go to sleep at night, thinking that
some technician would get the interpretation (of the incoming data) wrong, and
a lot of people would die.";  Tools give clues that can save lives;    The
basic tools of volcano monitoring are cheaper and more portable than they were
10 years ago. Scientists can move in fast and set up instruments that
continually broadcast readings, which are then analyzed by computer. This
allows quicker evaluation of volcano hazards -- and forecasts that can save
lives.; 1. Surveying: Researchers measure the volcano, with optical
instruments or high-tech laser tools, to see if it is bulging or stretching as
a result of magma rising inside. They also put tiltmeters near the volcano's
vent to record changes in the slope of the ground.; 2. Pick and shovel:
Geologists dig through layers of old ash and lava to determine how often a
volcano erupted in the past -- a clue to what it might do in the future. The
thicker and more extensive the deposit, the bigger the eruption.; 3.
Seismometer: Measures ground shaking. Volcanoes often produce swarms of small
earthquakes. Researchers are learning to distinguish ordinary earthquakes from
those caused by magma rising toward the surface -- a sign of impending
eruption.; 4. Spectrometer: First developed to measure pollutants from factory
smokestacks, it is now also used to measure sulfur dioxide in the smoke
belched by volcanoes. Increasing levels of the gas may signal an impending
eruption. The amount of gas reflects the amount of magma beneath the volcano,
and thus the potential size of the eruption.;    Sources: Robert Tilling and
Steven Brantley, U.S. Geological Survey: " The Earth," by Peter J. Smith.;
Reporting by Glennda Chui, graphic by Jenny Anderson and Kevin Boyd - Mercury
News.; (3 Drawings showing Laser, Pick, Seismometer and Spectrometer)  
