

British researchers have found "the first unambiguous evidence" that small 
changes in gravity can precede a volcanic eruption. 


In an article published today in the journal Nature the researchers report that 
gravity increased at the Poas volcano in Costa Rica over a two-year period 
before the volcano erupted in April and May of 1989. The increased gravity was 
thought to result from the intrusion of dense molten rock into the volcanic 
cone. 


Geophysicists Helen Rymer and Geoff Brown of the Open University in Milton 
Keynes, England, believe that measurements of very small changes in gravity -- 
called microgravity -- can be used to predict eruptions of certain types of 
volcanoes like Poas. 


Rymer speculated that Poas may erupt again next April or May. 


Rymer and Brown are also now beginning to monitor microgravity at Mt. Etna in 
Sicily, where the population in the area is threatened by periodic eruptions. 


"Microgravity would seem to be a very promising technique that should be used 
(for predicting volcanic eruptions)," said geophysicist Dan Dzurisin of the 
U.S. Geological Survey's Cascades Volcano Observatory in Washington. But the 
technique has yet to be tested, in part, because monitoring changes in 
microgravity is an extremely labor-intensive process that cannot be readily 
automated. 


As a result, most studies have measured microgravity changes only at long 
intervals, often simply before and after a volcanic eruption, and the results 
have been open to various interpretations. 


The Rymer and Brown study, in which microgravity was measured at regular 
intervals over a 10-year period, "represents the first time we can see a 
progression in microgravity over a long period of time" so that the results are 
much clearer, said geologist Al Eggers of the University of Puget Sound in 
Tacoma, Wash. 


Measuring gravitational changes is extraordinarily exacting, Dzurisin said. The 
accelerometers that are used are highly sensitive and easily get out of 
calibration, he said. It is thus necessary to calibrate the instruments 
frequently by moving them to a site where gravity does not change, requiring a 
constant human presence. 


The process is even more complicated because the accelerometers are sensitive 
to slight changes in elevation -- changes as small as fractions of an inch. (If 
the device is raised an inch, for example, it is that much farther from the 
center of the Earth, so that the pull of gravity is slightly less.) 


Measurements of gravity must be accompanied by highly accurate measurements of 
the level of land at the measurement site so that changes in elevation -- which 
often occur before volcanic eruptions -- are not misinterpreted as actual 
changes in gravity. 


Poas volcano is a classical cone-shaped volcano with a clear, deep (120 to 150 
feet) lake in its center. The lake is normally quite warm, about 104 degrees 
Fahrenheit, indicating that at least some molten rock lies close to the surface 
and heats it. 


After the volcano's last eruption in 1953, the lake filled to its normal depth 
and remained stable for three decades. But in 1983, Rymer said in a telephone 
interview, the lake's level began dropping slowly. 


By 1987, when Rymer and Brown began detecting an increase in microgravity, the 
lake level was dropping much more rapidly. Rymer believes the molten rock, or 
magma, that was causing the gravity to increase was also heating the water and 
making it evaporate faster. 


In June, 1987, geysers of water began erupting and the water level went down 
even faster. By April of this year, the water was gone and the volcano erupted 
in a mile-high cloud of ash. The ash eruptions subsided when spring rains 
re-established the lake, Rymer said, but she believes the volcano may erupt 
again as the lake is depleted during the coming dry season. 


The researchers do not know what happened to gravity levels after the eruption 
because their funding expired at about the same time the volcano erupted. But 
they will go back to Costa Rica in March to take new measurements. 


The lessons learned at Poas may not be applicable everywhere. Although Japanese 
researchers have some preliminary evidence of increases in microgravity before 
volcanic eruptions, Eggers found that microgravity actually decreased at Pacayo 
volcano in Guatemala before an eruption 10 years ago. 


Eggers speculates that the decrease was caused by formation of gaseous pockets 
in the magma. 


Still other volcanoes monitored by Dzurisin and others have shown no apparent 
changes. But it is likely, Dzurisin said, that each volcano has its own 
characteristic pattern of gravity changes and that once those changes are 
known, the pattern can be used for future predictions. 


Furthermore, Rymer noted, both Poas and Mt. Etna are filled with very light 
material, so that the intrusion of magma is more readily detected. In such 
cases, she said, gravity changes should be a particularly useful predictive 
tool. 


