The more immediate problem for U.S. officials, though, is the final confrontation with Saddam Hussein's 90,000-man-strong Republican Guard.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime.Pentagon officials said that early reports from the field indicated that U.S. forces captured or neutralized a Republican Guard mechanized division -- that is, one with mainly artillery and light armored vehicles.Overall, Pentagon officials described Iraqi forces as confused, leaderless and battle-weary, adding that the few Guard units that have engaged in tank duels so far haven't been "any tougher" to defeat than the rest of Saddam Hussein's army.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime.After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said.Gen. Kelly said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly.Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that he acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq.Secondly, the U.S. is calculating that Saddam Hussein will remain a sympathetic figure to those who revere him no matter how the U.S. treats him -- and that those who are skeptical about him will become more so.The huge allied armored corps north and west of the Guard is the biggest combat tank force assembled since World War II, with more than 1,300 heavy tanks and about 100,000 U.S. and British soldiers, supported by hundreds of Apache helicopters and A-10 jets.Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt."The plan is to do all sorts of things to force {Iraqi} tanks into the open," Lt.Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly.Saddam Hussein apparently was hoping to stop this devastation yesterday with a radio address to his troops and nation in which he said that Iraqi troops are withdrawing from Kuwait but that Iraqis should be proud to have stood up to a 30-nation coalition.Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), who last month opposed the congressional resolution authorizing war, said, "I think that the president would make a terrible mistake if he allowed Saddam Hussein to be in the position where he could declare to his own people some sort of victory, and there is no sign President Bush intends to do that."By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering him out of Kuwait, Saddam is "giving us every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power," said one Bush administration official.