Mr. Thomas's life is a remarkable story.Mr. Thomas is likely to be a very different kind of judge from the man he is replacing.Eventually he took a job with Missouri Attorney General (now Senator) John Danforth because "he promised to treat me like anyone else.In 1987 he told the Atlantic, "When the civil rights people indict me, the man they are indicting is that man.Writing in the Howard Law Journal in 1987, Mr. Thomas argued for what he called a "natural law" or "higher law" mode of judging, in which the judge examines not only the text of the Constitution or statute but also the moral principles underlying the American form of government."Our judicial philosophy may not be the same, but he is a bright and reflective man who believes passionately in fairness.We don't get smarter just because we sit next to white people in class, and we don't progress just because society is ready with handouts."Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says, not what he wants it to say," Mr. Thomas told me.Mr. Thomas maintains, with support from Abraham Lincoln and abolitionist Frederick Douglass, that the Constitution must be read in the context of the principle of equality inherent in the Declaration of Independence.And these are people looking to me, to the judge, to figure out what's just, to correctly apply the law.Part of King's legacy, for Mr. Thomas, is his reflection on the close connection between law and morality.This isn't law school speculation.The reason for the smooth passage, EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench) thinks, is that "Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition.Dean Robinson added, "People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think, but Clarence is his own man."At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration, and in 1981 he was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education.