6 ballot would, among other things, limit the terms of statewide officeholders and state legislators. Proposition 131 would limit statewide elected officials to two consecutive four-year terms, state legislators to 12 consecutive years in office; Proposition 140 would hold Assembly members to six years in office, state senators and statewide elected officials to eight. The Times asked six legislators and legislative specialists. Term limits would give the people of California more control over the Legislature, and the Legislature would be less prone to special interests, because legislators would know they are going to be there for six years and they're out. (Term limits) would stop (politics) from being a professional occupation. For many members, that's all they've ever done -- be in the Legislature, legislative staff. I think it will return the Legislature to more of a citizen-type legislator. The Legislature, right now, is controlled by those people who have a vested interest in legislation. I came to the Legislature after eight years on the (Monrovia) City Council. It would become clear rather quickly that you have a bunch of elected amateurs trying to run a very complex, complicated system of state government. We are growing at the rate of three-quarters of a million people a year, and that, alone, is hard for people to comprehend. So, governing the state of California... is not as easy and simple as a lot of people would think. And the other thing a lot of people seem to think is that you the governor -- or you the legislator -- can get up there and solve these problems tomorrow. Karl T. Kurtz, director of state services, National Conference of State Legislatures: The most negative and pernicious impact of term limitations will be on the leadership of the Legislature... But legislatures also need strong committee chairmen, and term limits mean that relatively inexperienced people are going to be in leadership and that they are -- by definition -- lame ducks from the very beginning. There has been a national movement that started in California, 25 years ago, to really strengthen the role of legislatures and to make them co-equal branches of government; things like term limitations, which would restrict the power and authority of legislatures, are a step backward in that movement. It would mean that, in relative terms, the legislatures would cede more power and authority to the executive branch, to lobbyists and to legislative staff. Because it is the largest political state in the country, a success for either proposition here is likely to have spinoff moves around the country.... As to what are the implications of term limitations in the state of California, a lot of people think that this is a partisan issue. Elected officials are supposed to represent the people who elect them. If there are constant changes, the impact of term limits would be to empower the bureaucracy -- the people who are not elected -- and (they) would definitely empower the special interests who have the finances and the ability to assist the bureaucrats. Instead of worrying about what their constituents think, as it gets toward the end of their term, legislators are going to be worried about what their next employer thinks, possibly in the private sector, or in their next constituency, which will not necessarily share the same interests as the one that elected them. So what it will do is reverse the incentive. 