Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen, says David Shulman, a Salomon Brothers economist who tracks real estate markets. The only reason Las Vegas has been booming is because it was on the periphery of Southern California. We are now a mature and diverse community that just doesn't have the same reliance on casino gaming as it once did, boasts Don Haze, a commercial real estate broker who opened a Coldwell Banker commercial leasing office in 1981. But a lengthy downturn could undo some of the image-building that Las Vegas underwent in the 1980s. Keith Schwer, of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's Center for Business and Economic Research. The recession in the early '80s spurred city leaders to mount a campaign to help Las Vegas break out of its dependency on the casino industry. In 1983, the Nevada state Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to Las Vegas. By contrast, the city's huge new Mirage casino employs about 7,000. The Nevada Development Authority estimates that in the past two years only 3,103 new jobs were created by private sector firms either expanding or moving into Nevada. What's more, the national credit crunch has saved developers from building projects with no prospect of success. Huge new Disney-like facilities such as the 3,000-room Mirage and the 4,000-room Excalibur have forced the industry into a Darwinian struggle in which older, undercapitalized facilities are falling behind more modern competitors. Now Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. If a city projects a need for 500 hotel rooms, then 500 developers will build 500 hotels each with 500 rooms. While the twin engines of Las Vegas's housing growth -- the casino industry and the spillover from the California market -- are beginning to sputter, housing starts continue to climb. Over the next year, builders have applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. But that would still leave 34,000 new homes and apartments to absorb. Economists cite another disturbing trend in Las Vegas's growth pattern: A full 8.1% of all payroll workers are in the construction sector, suggesting that there aren't enough indigenous industries to pick up the slack once things quiet down. He cashed in on the California real estate boom last year and moved to the serenity of the Nevada desert, where he lives in Del Webb Corp.'s Sun City, a planned community. With the California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't have made my deal today, he says. Some development companies are betting that any slowdown will be brief and are plunging ahead with ambitious projects. But they used to say that when California got a cold, Las Vegas got pneumonia. 