How, indeed, are eight "biospherians" going to fare testing the completely sealed compound with five adjacent but contrasting environments, called biomes, as well as an intensive agricultural complex, to duplicate the Earth's ecology? It's unlikely, all agree, that any of the eight crew members to be selected later this year from among 14 candidates in this $30 million private experiment, will go bonkers. "My guess would be that they would probably have somewhat fewer problems than you would normally encounter in the classical isolation experience," said Mary Connors, a psychologist and division staff member at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center near Sunnyvale, Calif., who until recently was acting chief of its Crew Research and Space Human Factors Branch. And they will have unusual options if they want to get away from each other. But crew members will be allowed to leave through air locks if health or extreme family emergencies necessitate, eliminating the sense of risk, she said. Walford and Biosphere spokeswoman Kathleen Dyhr, also hoping to make the crew, said each candidate has worked on the project for at least three years. Most say the crew will develop its own "equilibrium" once closed life gets under way. But will that lead to romantic relationships, to interludes under the waterfall or in the huge basements beneath the complex? "Mine has always been that it's unlikely, because I think people tend to act as crews when they get in an experience that is prolonged," Connors said. Bechtel said: "How could you avoid it? "Let's just put it this way," Ms. Dyhr said, "there's nothing really that a corporation can do about what their employees do after 5 o'clock. "Given the fact that various members of the clergy have shown themselves to be innovative and agreeable to doing marriages under very unusual circumstances, I'm sure that they could find a way to do it," Ms. Dyhr said. The Biosphere's purpose is "not to test interpersonal relations," but to test "whether they can reproduce the Earth's atmosphere by a mixture of plants, animals and bacteria," Bechtel said. He and Connors also said most studies of crews, including mixed-sex groups in environments far harsher and smaller than the biospherians are likely to encounter, have shown them to be highly motivated, energetic and willing to put up with almost anything for the sake of the project and the team's success. Bechtel said the public has a misconception that putting eight people together will mean "all kinds of interesting things can happen." 