The deeds of Robert Bork in his personal life are matched by the words of his professional duties as appeals court judge and solicitor general. In his five years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Judge Bork has heard eight cases involving the rights of minorities or women -- and ruled in their favor in seven. In no case did he render an opinion less sympathetic to minority or women's rights than the Supreme Court. Secretary of the Navy, Judge Bork ruled for a black Navy captain who wanted to sue the promotions board. Judge Bork held for the first time that federal courts can decide these cases. Judge Bork has written or joined several opinions protecting women's rights, especially at work: Laffey v. When the critics ask, where was Robert Bork during the great civil-rights victories? the best answer is that he was standing in front of the Supreme Court making the winning arguments. Indeed, perhaps the best measure of Robert Bork's civil-rights record is his four years as the government's chief litigator. Mr. Bork used his position to argue more pro-civil rights cases than any Supreme Court nominee since Thurgood Marshall. In 17 of the 19 cases, Solicitor General Bork argued for the civil rights plaintiff or minority interest; the NAACP Legal Defense Fund was on his side in nine of the 10 cases where both filed briefs. The civil-rights law, Solicitor General Bork said, reaches the actions of private individuals not in any way facilitated by state law. In several cases, Solicitor General Bork took the controversial position that plaintiffs do not have to prove the defendant's discriminatory intent in order to win discrimination cases. Solicitor General Bork tried to take the law even further. Despite Judge Bork's record of public service to civil rights, Sen. Joseph Biden claimed that throughout his career, Judge Bork has opposed virtually every civil rights advance. Biden was referring to, it couldn't have been the landmark Supreme Court case that desegregated the public schools and gave courage to a politically deadlocked Congress to act on civil rights. Judge Bork has said that by the 1954 Brown case, it had become abundantly apparent through repeated litigation that separate was never equal. Much has been made of Mr. Bork's three-page article in The New Republic in 1963 making the libertarian case against government-coerced desegregation of private establishments. Robert Bork long ago rejected the extreme libertarian argument. Critics of Judge Bork make the startling claim that he favors poll taxes, the device once used to deny blacks their right to vote. Judge Bork told the Judiciary Committee that he has no desire to bring poll taxes back into existence. Judge Bork told the committee that if the tax had been applied in a discriminatory fashion, it would have clearly been unconstitutional. Judge Bork's point was that if there is no racial discrimination, then there can be no equal-protection-clause justification to invalidate a state poll tax. Judge Bork has said that a better ground for invalidating a poll tax would be if it were so high an amount that it interfered with the constitutional provision guaranteeing a republican form of government. Apart from Judge Bork's extraordinary civil-rights record, there is a strong argument that minorities above all others should demand judicial restraint and an honest reading of the Constitution and its civil rights amendments. Judges such as Robert Bork insist that the law adhere to the Constitution, preserving a text that protects minority rights that today could again lose popularvor. A reading of Judge Bork's voluminous cvil rights record leaves the inescapable conclusion that the partisan campaign against him was one of intentional distortion. As it is, senators who take the time to review his record will find no honest argument that minorities or women have anything to fear from a Justice Bork. 