Family, friends and colleagues of Associated Press correspondent Terry A. Anderson gathered at Lafayette Park on Friday to mark an anniversary they had hoped to never see. Friday marked the end of his fifth year in captivity. The solemn ceremony, held across the street from the White House, also brought together the families of the seven other Americans who were kidnaped after Anderson and are still held in Lebanon. Just two weeks ago, anticipation of a possible release intensified when Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani said he saw the hostage ordeal moving toward a solution. Asked by reporters Friday whether he had any optimistic news for the families of the hostages, Bush demurred. Opponents of the Iranian regime said they see no reason to believe that a hostage release is imminent. It's just not in their interest to release the hostages. Bush declined to appear at Friday's ceremony across from the White House, but he and his wife, Barbara, met for half an hour with Anderson's sister, Peggy Say. Bush told reporters: I'm going to do everything I can to get those hostages out of there, sometimes privately, sometimes publicly. She also said she had faith that all the hostages would be released in the coming weeks. The Lafayette Park ceremony was sponsored by No Greater Love, a Washington-based support group for the families of the hostages. In Paris, former hostages Jean-Paul Kauffman and Roger Auque put on blindfolds and chained themselves to a tree outside the Iranian Embassy to protest Anderson's captivity. The two were among 10 French hostages released by their captors in Lebanon between 1986 and 1988. Kauffman and Auque were silent during their protest but said in a statement: We have taken this action so people know how Terry Anderson is living at this moment. Meanwhile, in Damascus, former President Jimmy Carter met Friday with Syrian President Hafez Assad and also expressed optimism about the fate of the hostages. In a letter published by seven Beirut newspapers, Anderson's wife, Madeline Bassil, told her husband that she and their daughter also feel like hostages. The families of the hostages have received little news of their condition other than an occasional -- and often distressing -- photo. 