JEZERSKO, Yugoslavia -- On Wednesday, the Slovene soldiers manning this border post raised a new flag to mark Slovenia's independence from Yugoslavia. Yesterday, under artillery fire from the federal army, they waved a white flag and surrendered as Yugoslavia lurched closer to civil war. Less than two days after Slovenia and Croatia, two of Yugoslavia's six republics, unilaterally seceded from the nation, the federal government in Belgrade mobilized troops to regain control. Local militiamen shot down a federal army helicopter as it flew over the capital, killing the pilot and co-pilot, the Associated Press reported. To put it briefly, Slovenia is at war, he said. The first shooting between the federal army and the militias occurred here, in the mountains that mark the border with Austria. Throughout the morning, federal soldiers, some bearing bazookas, fanned out in the woods surrounding the Slovenia customs house. After the shooting stopped, he talked to a group of the federal soldiers, and discovered that some were conscripts from Slovenia. He called on Slovenes in the federal army to desert and join the republic's militia. But the poorly trained and equipped Slovene and Croatian militias, formed in the past several months, are no match for the 180,000-strong federal army. Politically, the two republics' declarations of independence have been ignored by the rest of the world, which supports a united Yugoslavia. Mr. Baker and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater had suggested to reporters Wednesday that the breakaway republics be granted greater autonomy and sovereignty within a united Yugoslavia. The federal army, dominated by Serbs, has long warned that it won't stand by while the country disintegrates. And on Tuesday night, after the two republics declared their independence, the federal parliament called on the army to intervene. The independence declarations came after months of unsuccessful negotiations among the leaders of the six republics over the post-Cold War shape of Yugoslavia. The nationalist governments of Slovenia and Croatia have been demanding a looser confederation of sovereign republics. They worry that the 600,000 Serbs living in Croatia (about 11% of that republic's population) will be discriminated against by the Croatian government. And they fear losing the economic support of Slovenia and Croatia, the two wealthiest republics. Together, Slovenia, with two million people, and Croatia, with five million, supply nearly two-thirds of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange and about half of the country's gross national product. 