The tanker that caused the nation's biggest oil spill was being illegally piloted by its third mate when the vessel ran aground on a reef, Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday. The Coast Guard said the slick and patches of oil separated from it were spread over an area of about 100 square miles. Exxon Shipping spokesman Brian Dunphy told The Associated Press that the captain of the tanker Exxon Valdez, Joseph Hazelwood, was not on the bridge at the time of the accident and that third mate Gregory Cousins was in command. "It's Exxon's policy that in the waters that the ship was located in, the captain should have been on the bridge," Dunphy said. There is a full investigation that will occur on the incident," Dunphy said, adding that the captain is consulting with an attorney. Exxon Shipping Co. held a meeting Sunday between fishermen and a company claims officer. The Coast Guard said it ordered the closure to prevent pollution from being carried to Valdez on vessels passing through the oil. "This oil spill may well be the greatest disaster to hit Alaska since the Good Friday earthquake 25 years ago," Cowper said in a news release. Valdez is at the southern end of the 800-mile Alaska oil pipeline. The only larger oil-related accident in U.S. waters was the spilling and burning of up to 10.7 million gallons of oil when two ships collided in Galveston Bay in 1979. More than four miles of floating boom had been placed in an effort to contain the oil, the Coast Guard said Sunday. An additional 3,000 feet was to be deployed at Galena Bay at the request of fishermen. The Coast Guard estimated the area affected by the spill at 100 square miles. However, Exxon insisted that the area was only 10 to 12 square miles, and Coast Guard officials said they were at a loss to explain the difference in estimates. The Coast Guard said about 84,000 gallons of oil an hour was being transferred; at that rate, the unloading could take seven days. By late Sunday, Exxon officials said a total of 37,500 barrels of oil had been transferred in the first two days of the operation, leaving more than 900,000 barrels on the ship. However, the wind and waves may make it more difficult to skim oil off the water, said Coast Guard Lt. An experiment to assess the possibility of burning off the oil was completed early Sunday and the Coast Guard said Exxon officials were "cautiously optimistic." The ship's captain and two bridge crew members, including Cousins, were relieved of duty Saturday and subpoenaed by the NTSB. The spill came at a time when Prince William Sound fishermen were preparing for the herring season, which is followed by harvests of shellfish and salmon. Many are concerned they will get only minimal harvests because of the oil damage, and then will face the longer-term problem of bad publicity. "It's possible they could avoid the oil," Brown said. Ott said fishing is an economic mainstay in Cordova, more so than in Valdez, which also draws tourists and has the oil terminal. 