Few Americans much notice that Saddam Hussein of Iraq is accusing his small neighbors of harboring an "imperial-Zionist plan" to drive down the price of oil. Don't blame yourself if you missed the rumblings that were to suddenly put the United States on war footing and land a vast military force on the searing Saudi desert, where American troops had never before been welcomed. What led to that, the quarrel between Iraq and its little neighbor, Kuwait, just seemed like another of those wrangles over oil production and pricing that occur before the meetings of OPEC sheiks and statesmen. The oil glut was the problem for Saddam Hussein of Iraq. Oil prices and oil revenues were falling. Saddam found a pair of villains _ Kuwait, his wartime supporter and financier, and the United Arab Emirates. Kuwait and the UAE were in fact, as Saddam Hussein charged, exceeding their OPEC oil production quotas by over a million barrels a day and thus helping to keep oil prices depressed. He wants Kuwait to forgive $15 billion in loans extended during the Iran-Iraq war. And he wants Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to pay $14 billion to compensate for what he says Iraq lost due to low oil prices. July 19: Kuwait cancels its state of alert. July 22: A pro-government newspaper in Iran, in a surprise show of support for a former enemy, says a "means of punishment against quota violators seems a necessity." July 23: Unconfirmed reports say that Iraq has massed 30,000 troops to its border and that the Pentagon has put its warships in the Persian Gulf on alert. July 24: Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing Iraqi oil. July 25: President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, seeking to carve out a peacemaker's role, says Iraq and Kuwait have agreed to send delegations to the Saudi Arabian summer capital of Jiddah to discuss their differences. July 27: At a tense meeting in Geneva, OPEC agrees to limit oil production and raise its target price by $3 to $21 a barrel. The Iraqi delegation walks out, saying they did not sense "any seriousness" from the Kuwaitis. Tensions _ and oil prices _ rise. Kuwait's hopelessly outnumbered troops wage pitched battles around the sheik's residential palace. Kuwait calls for urgent American military assistance but Iraq threatens to turn Kuwait into a "graveyard" if an outside power intervenes. Finally, he commits massive American force, the largest dispatched since the Vietnam war, to protect Saudi Arabia from Kuwait's fate. He says they will serve until Saddam withdraws from Kuwait. 