But that's the way it's been for almost seven years. ; He was handed over to U.S. officials in Damascus after hours of delay apparently caused by snow in the mountainous terrain from Beirut, Lebanon.; Anderson, 44, was the third American hostage freed in three days, and his release ended an agonizing drama for the United States. Two German hostages are still being held.; The secretary-general said at U.N. headquarters that no deal had been made by U.N. officials guaranteeing the hostage-takers immunity from retaliation.; In exchange for the hostage releases, the kidnappers were reported by Iran's Tehran Radio this week to have been promised that they would not be pursued by the United States, Germany or any other country.; Confusion about Anderson's whereabouts arose after a five-page Arabic-language statement from the Islamic Jihad group that held Anderson announced today he would be set free, but its wording was unclear as to whether he had already been released.; Anderson said in a videotaped statement released today by his captors to the Associated Press in Damascus that he was to be freed. The Germans were seized by Shiite militants seeking the release of Mohammed and Abbas Hamadi, brothers imprisoned in Germany on terrorism convictions.; Terry Anderson: chronology of captivity; 1985; March 16 - Anderson abducted on Beirut street by Islamic Jihad.; May 16 - First photo of Anderson in captivity released. Islamic Jihad warns of catastrophic consequences if Kuwait does not free terrorists.; June 7 - Anderson's daughter Sulome is born.; 1986; Feb. 15 - Anderson's father dies of cancer at age 69.; June 7 - Anderson's 46-year-old brother dies.; Oct. 3 - In a videotape, Anderson and hostage David Jacobsen urge Reagan to work hard for their release.; Nov. 26 -- Jacobsen says he has been told Anderson is being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day.; 1988; April 10 - Islamic Jihad threatens to kill the captives if any attempt is made to storm a hijacked Kuwaiti jetliner.; Aug. 5 -- Anderson's 2,000th day in captivity.; 1991; March 13 - In the wake of Iraq's defeat in the gulf war, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker visits Syria to discuss the hostages. 6 - In a videotape, Anderson urges all parties to accelerate negotiations to free Western hostages and says hundreds of Arab prisoners deserve freedom, too.; Oct. 