Here is the text of President Bush's address to the people of Iraq, as released by the White House: I'm here today to explain to the people of Iraq why the United States and the world community has responded the way it has to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. We have no quarrel with the people of Iraq. 2, your leadership made its decision to invade, an unprovoked attack on a small nation that posed no threat to your own. Kuwait was the victim; Iraq, the aggressor. And the world met Iraq's invasion with a chorus of condemnation, unanimous resolutions in the United Nations. I do not believe that you, the people of Iraq, want war. No one knows what Iraq might be today, what prosperity and peace you might enjoy had your leaders not plunged you into war. Saddam Hussein has told you that Iraqi troops were invited into Kuwait. Saddam Hussein tells you that this crisis is a struggle between Iraq and America. Saddam Hussein tells you the occupation of Kuwait will benefit the poorer nations of the world. In fact, the occupation of Kuwait is helping no one and is now hurting you, the Iraqi people, and countless others of the world's poor. Because of Iraq's aggression, hundreds of thousands of innocent foreign workers are fleeing Kuwait and Iraq. But even worse, others are being held hostage in Iraq and Kuwait. I do not want to add to the suffering of the people of Iraq. The United Nations has put binding sanctions in place, not to punish the Iraqi people, but as a peaceful means to convince your leadership to withdraw from Kuwait. That decision is in the hands of Saddam Hussein. Let me say clearly, there is no way Iraq can win. Ultimately, Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait. No one -- not the American people, not this President -- wants war. When we stand with Kuwait against aggression, we stand for a principle well understood in the Arab world. If Iraq should become intoxicated by its power and move to overwhelm another Arab state, the Arabs would be right to deploy their armies to check it. Iraq must get out of Kuwait -- for the sake of principle, for the sake of peace and for the sake of the Iraqi people. 