Carl Lewis said he knew Ben Johnson was taking performance-enhancing drugs just after their 100-meter final last fall at the Seoul Olympics. Now Lewis has been implicated in an alleged sabotage of Johnson's drug test, which returned a positive result for the banned anabolic steroid stanozolol. Francis based his theory on the fact that Johnson took the steroid furazabol three weeks before the Games, not the difficult-to-detect stanozolol. According to Francis' testimony, Johnson said that an unidentified man who had been talking with Lewis sat near the beer that was provided for the athletes to facilitate them in providing urine samples. Lewis had finished second to Johnson, who set a world record of 9.79 seconds in winning the 100-meter gold medal, and subsequently also had to be tested. He set the record at the 1987 World Championships at Rome, where Lewis finished second in 9.93 seconds. Lewis said Sunday that officials of the International Amateur Athletics Federation should disallow Johnson's world record from Rome because Francis has testified his sprinter took drugs before the World Championships. If that were to happen, Lewis would replace Johnson as the world record-holder. IAAF officials, however, said the record will stand because Johnson passed a drug test after the 1987 race. If it has been proven that he took drugs, I would think that (withdrawing the record) is the responsible thing for the sport, Lewis said Sunday. Lewis also contended that Francis' testimony painted a false picture as to why Johnson would take performance-enhancing drugs. He is trying to say that everyone was on it, so they got on it, Lewis said. They wanted to beat people. Lewis said track and field is not infested with steroid users as some are beginning to believe in light of the Canadian inquiry. Most of your great athletes are clean, Lewis said. Lewis, however, refused to implicate any of his colleagues. No way in the world does she take drugs, Lewis said, pounding a table. People who know her know it. It didn't ease the pain of not winning and feeling he (Johnson) was on drugs. But he is perpetuating continued drug use. The biggest thing about drug use is denial. Lewis, who won four gold medals at the 1984 Summer Games and has been one of the great sprinters and long jumpers in track and field, said he is determined to help the sport's image. That's what people don't realize, he said. Lewis asked. 