Justice! after the verdict was read.; She said the group would now turn its efforts to a seemingly odd goal: delaying the federal criminal case against Keating.; Mellon said the bondholders want a civil lawsuit in Tucson federal court heard before a federal criminal case. We're talking to legislators, anybody who'll listen, insisting that the (criminal) case be postponed.; We can't wait another 2 1/2 years until they get to our trial. ; Several lawyers involved in the Keating legal wars told the Associated Press that a federal indictment, of Keating and probably four others, would be returned this month. 2 to eight years in prison, ordered to pay $5.4 million restitution and fined $20,000 for his part in a $105 million fraud scheme. Thomas A. Burger, its former chief lending officer, received 12 years and was ordered to pay $6 million in restitution.; (box) ERNEST J. BADARACCO JR. -- The former president of the failed Elysian Federal Savings in Hoboken, N.J., was sentenced June 11 to 21 months in prison for fraud and ordered to pay $293,000 restitution.; (box) ROY WAYNE DAILEY -- The former owner of Conroe-based First Savings Association of East Texas was sentenced April 8 to 12 years in prison and ordered to pay $5 million in restitution. Dailey was convicted in December of misappropriation of funds, bank fraud and bank bribery.; (box) DONALD DIXON -- The former owner of Vernon Savings &amp; Loan Association in Texas was sentenced April 2 to five years in prison and ordered to repay $577,000 to the FDIC for bank fraud. McKinzie was also ordered make restitution of almost $14 million looted from the collapsed thrift.; (box) BURTON BONGARD -- The former president of Home State Savings Bank of Ohio was sentenced on July 22, 1987, to 10 years for conspiracy and fraud.; (box) JEROME S. CARDIN -- A former part-owner of the now-defunct Old Court Savings and Loan Association of Baltimore, he was sentenced Jan. He was also fined $5,000.; (box) JEFFREY A. LEVITT -- The former president of Old Court Savings and Loan Association was sentenced July 2, 1986, to 30 years in prison for theft of $14.69 million from the thrift. 