The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United States took a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Hussein called President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy war could bring thousands of Americans home in coffins. After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with King Hussein of Jordan, Bush said, "I did not come away with any feeling of hope" that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait. Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordan would close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as the economic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated. Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bush administration plans to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to back up the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already in place in the gulf and the Saudi desert. "Very few" of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait complied with the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press. A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than 450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has called them "restrictees." In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq has continued to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they now number about 160,000. In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday, Saddam repeatedly called Bush "a liar" and said a shooting war could produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad. An international land, sea and air force has mobilized since Iraq's invasion, which was sparked by disputes over oil, land and repayment of war loans. The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq. Bush was expected to authorize naval commanders to use "the minimum force necessary" to interdict shipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. The combined operations are designed to isolate and strangle Iraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes to staunch the flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, and clamp down on food and supplies going in. Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves with its conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves. Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to press the king to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqaba on the Red Sea. Bush has indicated the U.S. Navy will barricade the port from Iraqi ships. He also said of trade with Iraq: "There are no shipments at the moment." Reports attributed to the Japanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European and Japanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supply in September. Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency said Thursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt, which led to "large-scale" arrests, including some close associates of the Iraqi strongman. 