Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes, but it most prevalent among minorities, especially Native Americans, blacks and Hispanics. Hispanics are three times as likely to develop diabetes as the general population, and 40 percent of the 700,000 victims in Texas are Mexican-American. San Antonio, the nation's ninth largest city, with a population that is 50 percent Hispanic, is becoming the base for diabetes studies. (AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> Aly El-Shiekh envisions astronauts on a three-year trip to Mars "knitting" themselves a space station using ceramic fibers that can be braided into panels, beams, boxes and practically any other shape. El-Shiekh and his students are developing machinery to braid long strands of ceramic fibers. While much of his work relates to the Mars Mission Research Center here, El-Shiekh sees a big future for composite materials like ceramic fibers. "The day may very well come when you are driving around with car engine parts of ceramic fiber," he said, adding that the vibration-damping properties of the materials also would make them good for torsion bars in cars. The fibers, including Kevlar now used to make bulletproof vests, also could be used to make some body parts, and El-Shiekh is working with Duke University researchers on ceramic "stents," collapsible braces for arteries. It's a question that has become more and more commonplace in emergency rooms already burdened by increased patient loads. "There is an emergency in the emergency room right now in not only New York and Boston but around the country and for a variety of reasons," said Ken Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. From 1986 to 1987, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, cocaine-related cases in emergency rooms increased 122 percent in the District of Columbia; 86 percent in both Boston and Atlanta; 80 percent in Detroit; 73 percent in Chicago; 53 percent in Minneapolis; 50 percent in Texas, and 39 percent in New York City. Efforts to stem the rising tide of drug abuse comes at a time when emergency rooms already face increased patient loads, partly because of the reduced role of the traditional family doctor and partly because there are more people who can't afford a private doctor. 