Dr. Testa, a bearded University of Alaska biologist, is trying to learn why so many Antarctic seals starve every few years. This is the story of three groups of scientific sleuths in Antarctica: biologists studying the antifreeze systems of fish; glaciologists examining whether the West Antarctic ice sheet will break apart and flood the world; and cosmologists searching for the birth of galaxies. The fish he hooked beneath the ice swam contentedly in tanks filled with frigid water, but died when the water was warmed. Over the next seven years the biologist returned repeatedly to Antarctica. Now 52, with a graying walrus mustache and walrus girth, Dr. DeVries is one of the last of the old Antarctic hands still conducting research on the ice, as the place is called here. Somehow, the antifreeze binds to tiny ice crystals that the fish swallow as they swim. One sunny afternoon in November, Dr. DeVries and Joseph Eastman, a longtime associate who teaches at Miami University in Ohio, fish through a hole in the ice. They want to see if ice collects in fish organs, and if it does, how the organs and antifreeze keep the ice in check. The next afternoon at McMurdo's aquarium, a blue metal shack with six big holding tanks, Dr. DeVries takes a small fish and puts it in a bath chilled to 19 degrees -- well below the temperature fish antifreeze works at. The fish convulses, then stiffens, its eyes turn gray with ice. The ice inside the fish had grown explosively at the lower temperature, Dr. DeVries explains, wrecking the fish's nervous system and cells. Liver, no ice. Ovaries, no ice. Blood, no ice. It quickly becomes encased in ice. The ice collector is found. Ice buildup should overload the spleen and kill the fish, he says, but it doesn't. He speculates there may be a kind of hot spot in the fish, that melts ice crystals. General Foods has experimented with fish antifreeze to see if it can prevent ice crystals from ruining ice cream that's left out of the freezer and put back melted. But none of the research has panned out yet, and Dr. DeVries is deeply skeptical it will until scientists understand better how fish and their antifreeze work. Four groups of glaciologists are setting up camp in West Antarctica to see whether the ice sheet there -- a hunk of ice as big as Greenland -- is beginning to collapse. He plans to drive stakes into the ice along a 90-mile line just below the mouth, and come back two years later to see how far the stakes have moved. Some ice streams move a half mile a year, pulling ice from Antarctica's interior to the sea. By comparing the outflow of ice with measurements of snow accumulation in the interior, scientists can calculate whether the ice sheet is shedding ice. The thinner the ice sheet gets, the faster the ice streams will flow. And the faster the ice streams flow, the thinner the ice sheet gets, until, eventually, it collapses. Scientists found that the streams changed speed and direction rapidly -- showing the ice sheet as far more unpredictable than imagined. And they found 500,000-year-old marine fossils under the ice, indicating the ice sheet had melted before when the Earth had warmed. If the ice sheet is melting, humans probably aren't to blame. Glaciologists say Antarctica is responding to the long-term warming of the Earth since the last ice age 18,000 years ago, and to the weird geology of the frozen continent. That stops the ice cold. He and his team plan to lay out 10 rectangular grids, each consisting of 1,000 bamboo poles jammed into the snow atop an ice stream. Things are changing rapidly, and we don't have ways to predict the future of the ice sheet, Dr. Bentley says. The Princeton team has come to the Pole every other year since 1986. The first year they ran out of liquid helium to cool the telescope. 