But after years of boasting that their methods were models in policing, both departments are facing pressure to revolutionize their tactics to better fit this first-of-its-kind metropolis.; We are a multiracial, multicultural city more than any other, said Ramona Ripston, head of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Critics say its leaders have been supporters of the local law establishment.; But because Block is elected, his is the last word.; Like Gates before him, Block maintains his department is a good one with a reputation as being one of the most progressive, one of the most professional, one of the finest law enforcement agencies. ; The sheriff has said that his department continually re-examines itself and launched several Christopher Commission recommendations before the commission even existed -- but that it can't do everything.; 'A last-resort mechanism'; Law enforcement, and I'm going beyond the sheriff's department, did not create the social conditions out there from which the violence is springing, he said. And fail they have. ; Block pointed to social ills including high drop-out and illiteracy rates, young people who are raising themselves, and a county jail system that is perhaps the major houser of mentally ill people in our society in this nation. ; Countywide, homicides soared to 1,964 last year, compared with 1,463 five years earlier.; There are 950 known street gangs with more than 99,300 members in the county, according to the sheriff's department.; Agreeing that law enforcement is not the answer to all of society's failures, critics say Block is missing the point.; Police brutality (or) racism is not a social problem, it's a law enforcement lack of leadership, the Hoover Institution's McNamara said. The rhetoric of the Los Angeles police establishment through the years seems to have escalated conflict, not lowered it. ; The FBI, Amnesty International and the county grand jury are investigating allegations about both departments.; But some critics are skeptical that the police culture here will change significantly.; 'Window dressing' predicted; On the city side, they worry that the Christopher Commission recommendations will be diluted by the time the city council and voters are finished with them. Besides a new police chief, the ACLU's Hicks predicted only some window dressing and some moderate changes made to training. ; On the county side, critics say Block's position as an elected official insulates him from the kind of independent review the city was able to order for the police department.; And although he can be voted out, they say, the voters include great numbers of people in cities that his department doesn't patrol.; John Burton, an attorney specializing in police misconduct cases, offers a grim view on the potential for change: I think it's going to get worse, because of the general decay in social conditions and unemployment. 