From a helicopter, the wave-washed beach looks as if the worst oil spill in U.S. history had never touched it. "Hundreds of gallons of oil are locked up under this beach," he says. There are hundreds of beaches all over the sound that are still oiled, and the oil is slowly bleeding out. A year after the wreck of the Exxon Valdez, the question clings like the oil under this Perry Island beach. But assessing the continuing damage wrought by the nation's most extensive _ and expensive _ oil spill has just begun. Any hope of a quick solution faded last summer as oil from the Exxon Valdez spread across 1,100 miles of Alaska's wild southern coast. But when Exxon suspended its $2 billion cleanup in mid-September, it had recovered only 5 percent to 9 percent of the oil spilled, state officials estimate. That leaves 50 percent to 75 percent of the oil in the water, on the ocean bottom or on beaches. Those numbers alone make the Valdez spill the most lethal ever, but scientists say the actual death count is much higher, estimating that up to 90 percent of the seabirds caught in oil sank from sight or drifted out to sea. Exxon notes the spill did not wipe out any species and says surviving animals and birds will rebuild populations. "We never claimed that the spill put any animal on the endangered species list, but that's missing the point," said Fish and Wildlife spokesman Bruce Batten. The state sued, claiming the company was negligent in responding to the spill, only to be countersued by Exxon, which claimed state officials hindered the use of chemical dispersants that could have broken up large quantities of oil early on. State officials cite an October survey that showed 117 miles of shoreline remained moderately or heavily oiled, with oil more than two feet deep in some spots. They say observers flying over the sound still report 15 to 20 oil sheens bleeding off beaches daily. Exxon officials, meanwhile, say their winter monitoring of 64 sites shows wind and waves have scoured away, on average, more than half the surface oil left in September, and up to 80 percent of the buried oil. 