The man who would have been a member of the U.S. Supreme Court and was stingingly rebuffed by the Senate is quick to smile at the irony the last two years have brought. He says he is taking his case to a higher court, the American public and the next generation. One reason why is that Robert Bork, former Marine, former practicing lawyer, former Yale professor of law, former solicitor general, former professor at Yale again, former judge of the U.S. Circuit of Appeals, is now a best-selling writer. To his surprise, "The Tempting of America, The Political Seduction Of The Law," has been on the best-seller list for more than 10 weeks, and there are more than 190,000 copies in print. Bork was nominated for the Supreme Court in July 1987 and four months later the Democrat-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee, after an often vitriolic debate, found him unfit for the job. Sitting in his office at the American Enterprise Institute, his back to his word processor, he briefly considers what might have been: "I don't want to spend the rest of my life reliving it. He recalls the impact of a book he wrote a dozen years ago on antitrust law. "You know if you are on a court, you are one vote. "I think this book has the chance to have more impact. Bork has plans for perhaps two more books, one in more academic detail on constitutional law aimed at law schools, and another on the relationship of law and the culture. He will hit the lecture circuit this spring and fall and will teach a constitutional law course next year at George Mason University. Perhaps another shot at the court? The first time around when I was nominated for the Court of Appeals, the Senate approved me unanimously, as did the committee." "Popular culture as far as I'm concerned has gone straight downhill," Bork says. There is now a law against giving out such lists. Bork enjoys the atmosphere at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative think tank that has become his small university. Bork, who abhored grading papers when he taught, says with a self-satisfied grin, "It's a very good faculty, with no blue books." "Not mine," says Bork. 