The president ordered a cease-fire -- but a temporary one, contingent on Iraq's freeing its captives, complying with United Nations resolutions and taking other steps to help defuse the region. Late last night it was reported that Iraq's U.N. mission had sent a letter to the U.N. accepting all the Security Council resolutions on the Gulf war. Although Mr. Bush took pains to note that no one country can claim this victory as its own, the triumph will clearly leave the U.S., along with its friends in Egypt and Saudi Arabia, as the dominant powers in the Middle East. President Bush himself acknowledged the new and difficult course ahead. U.S. policy makers are talking tentatively of securing Kuwait with demilitarized zones and an Islamic peacekeeping force drawn largely from Persian Gulf states and Egypt. Then the U.S. would extract its ground forces from the region while relying on Gulf governments to craft a new security system that could be silently supported by Washington. In a statement read on Baghdad Radio, Iraq finally agreed to President Bush's demand not only to withdraw from Kuwait, but also to accept U.N. Security Council resolutions that require Baghdad to drop its claim to Kuwait and that make Iraq liable for paying war reparations. The U.S. wants to keep those sanctions in place as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power -- one more incentive, perhaps, for the Iraqi people to topple him. An administration official said the U.S. doesn't expect him to give in to all of Mr. Bush's demands of last night. At this point, making it very clear Saddam Hussein has been defeated and there are no illusions about it is good -- provided that we know how to play the next phase, said William Quandt, a former National Security Council Middle East analyst now with the Brookings Institution. Here are some of the challenges and opportunities as they now appear on the eve of a clear military victory: The first order of business will be simply pacifying the stormy border between Iraq and Kuwait. The problem is exacerbated by the growing likelihood, acknowledged privately by Bush administration aides, that Saddam Hussein will survive in power for at least a while longer. U.S. commanders yesterday conceded that Iraq went into the war with far more mobile Scud launchers than U.S. intelligence had estimated. Mr. Bush last night emphasized that the temporary cease-fire would be off the minute that Iraq fired any Scud missiles. So Bush administration officials have privately planned a series of steps to protect newly liberated Kuwait. Under those arrangements, Kuwait and Iraq would agree on precisely what kind and how much military equipment and troops would be allowed in specified border areas. Beyond that, officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a military alliance of Saudi Arabia and the five smaller Gulf Arab states, already have worked out plans for an Islamic peacekeeping force to guard Kuwait. This particularly enhances the position of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Saudi King Fahd, who gambled that they could defy Iraq and rely on the U.S. to stand with them -- and who now can claim that their gamble paid off handsomely. President Hafez Assad's power clearly is enhanced by the defeat of his archrival next door, Saddam Hussein, and his new chumminess with Washington. Syrians don't love Saddam Hussein, but they aren't fond of the U.S., either. In private discussions with the U.S., Syria acknowledged that it faced serious internal unhappiness over sending Syrian forces along on the ground attack in Kuwait. That sentiment could vent itself through Islamic fundamentalism, a potential problem for Egypt and Saudi Arabia as well as for Syria. Similarly, Jordan's open sympathy for Iraq has deeply strained relations with the U.S., creating another impediment to solving the Palestinian problem. Mr. Bush and other officials were miffed that so little appreciation was expressed for U.S. efforts to eliminate the Iraqi military threat. The new U.S. bonds with Syria and Saudi Arabia create an opening to address the Arab-Israeli conflict on a more comprehensive plane in which the U.S. tries first to lead Arab states to make peace with Israel, then addresses the Palestinian issue in that broader process. Tehran will insist on being a part of any new Persian Gulf security system, and may use its influence within it to agitate for expelling any Western forces from the region. The Saudis appear willing to support oil price moderation as they concentrate on keeping their own production high after the war; Iran, still rebuilding from its own debilitating war with Iraq, feels its interests are best served by higher prices. In 1979, after the Iranian revolution, Shiite clerics funneled money to this region, preaching there and calling for the establishment of an Islamic state in Iraq, which has a large Shiite population. If Saddam Hussein is weak enough, you'll see that kind of thing going on again, predicts Kenneth Katzman, a former U.S. intelligence analyst who now is a defense consultant. Any drift toward a radical Shiite government in Iraq, in turn, would alarm Saudi Arabia. 