   Her neighborhood was leveled. The Tolentinos and 100 other poor families
along the Albacan River in Angeles, a once-bustling city of 280,000 people in
the shadow of Mount Pinatubo, lost their homes Saturday in mudslides and
floods brought on by the volcano's powerful eruption.;    One resident, an
elderly man, drowned in the torrent of thick volcanic ash and rainwater.;   
Because of impassable roads and downed telephone lines, it was still
impossible Monday to determine the extent of the damage.;    The death toll
from the eruptions of Mount Pinatubo, combined with a series of earthquakes
and torrential rains, increased to more than 200, according to Philippine
television. The Philippine Red Cross said at least 101 people had been
killed.;    The government estimated damage to property and crops at about
$200 million.;    Most of the deaths occurred when houses and other buildings
collapsed under the weight of as much as eight inches of ash and sand spewed
from the rumbling crater.;    Hundreds of people across the island of Luzon
were reported missing, while hundreds of thousands of others have been left
homeless.;    As many as 150,000 people fleeing the volcano were said to be
crowding into evacuation centers Monday night in Manila, the capital, about 50
miles south of the volcano.;    Volcano scientists continued to express a
careful optimism. Raymondo Punongbayan, director of the Philippine Institute
of Volcanology and Seismology, said in an interview that while the volcano
remained a threat, the eruptions were "simmering down" and "significant,
critical eruptions are probably over.";    Manila's domestic and international
airports were scheduled to reopen today, three days after they were closed
because of concern that ash from the volcano would damage jet engines.;   
Despite the optimism from scientists, however, the exodus of families fleeing
the volcano area continued late Monday as buses and trucks caked with gray ash
jammed roads leading into Manila. The government has set up more than 100
makeshift shelters in churches, schools, army camps and gymnasiums in the
capital.;    In the wake of the eruptions, Filipinos are facing monumental
tasks. Food and clean drinking water were running low in the central and
southwestern portions of the main Luzon island, which bore the brunt of the
volcano's week of fury.;    Angeles was without electricity Monday and so many
stores and gasoline stations were closed that it was difficult to find food
and fuel.;    Dozens of angry residents stormed a row of food shops in the
city's market, forced open the doors with crowbars and carted away canned
goods and other items, police and witnesses said.;    "We will die of hunger
if we don't do this," one of the looters said.;    Fifteen people were
arrested after more than 100 pigs were stolen from a farm near Angeles.;
Another U.S. Navy flotilla steamed toward Subic Bay today to help speed the
American exodus, and Filipinos complained that their government failed to
prepare them for the devastating fury of Mount Pinatubo.;    "We were really
caught flat-footed. They had not expected anything of this magnitude," said
Gov. Bren Guiao of Pampanga province, where about 120,000 refugees were
seeking help.; "It's about time we left," said Lisa Hedland, wife of an Air
Force sergeant, as she prepared to board the cruiser Long Beach with her
15-month-old daughter. "It's been horrible this past week.";    For most
Filipinos fleeing the volcano, the journey to safety was less orderly and far
more difficult.;    "We have nothing except the clothes we are wearing," said
Solidad Santiago, a 41-year-old laundry worker from Angeles, who fled to a
Manila evacuation center Sunday with most but not all of her family.;    "Our
house collapsed because of the volcano," said Santiago, a widow, whose face
showed signs of the wrenching fear of the past week. "My oldest son stayed
behind to try to guard our possessions.;    "He should be here by now," she
said. "I have gone on the public address system here and called his name, but
there is never any response. I am very concerned. I pray he is safe.";   
Santiago and her family were among nearly 5,000 refugees who crowded Monday
into the shaded bleachers of a Manila sports stadium that is being used as an
evacuation center.;    The evacuees were provided with food -- mostly
sausages, rice and crackers donated by local businesses.;    "We have lost
everything, but still I am happy, happy to be here," said Romayo Garcia, a
29-year-old mason, whose house near the now-evacuated Clark Air Base, about 10
miles east of Mount Pinatubo, had collapsed from the weight of volcanic ash.; 
  "The rocks were as big as this," he said, bringing together his thumbs and
index fingers to make a circle five inches wide. "It was impossible to walk.
People panicked. We had to find a way to get out.";    Garcia said he and
several members of his family trudged nearly 20 miles through ankle-deep ash
until they found a truck driver willing to take them to Manila. 