   "He's someone who eats it up," said Randy White, Harlow's friend and
colleague at the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park. "He's able to totally
concentrate in those sorts of situations.";    The eruptions at Mount Pinatubo
finally gave Harlow the chance to put his skills and experience to work saving
lives. When Harlow went to Mount St. Helens in Washington state in 1980,
geologists were still learning how to read the telltale earthquakes.
Bureaucratic delays kept Harlow from arriving at Nevado de Ruiz in Colombia
until a day after its 1985 eruption. Harlow and his team predicted the 1989
eruption of Redoubt Volcano in Alaska, but few lives were threatened in the
remote area.;    Three weeks ago, Harlow joined a team of five U.S. Geological
Survey scientists who worked with 10 Filipino scientists to try to forecast
the eruption of the volcano, which had been dormant for about 600 years. One
crew gathered evidence of Pinatubo's earlier eruptions as clues to its
potential power.;    Harlow's team set up a ring of a half-dozen seismographs
around the volcano to measure the deep tremors caused by molten lava slowly
pushing to the surface and the shallower tremors that follow when the eruption
is imminent.;    Pinatubo followed an almost textbook pattern over the past
six weeks. Gradually building earthquakes were followed by the release of gas,
the buildup of magma and finally the huge explosions that sent ash clouds more
than 75,000 feet into the sky and sent avalanches of hot ash pouring down the
narrow valleys west of the volcano.;    Philippine and U.S. Air Force
officials ordered evacuations Monday.;    Since late Tuesday, Harlow's
colleagues have not been able to get through on the single phone line into the
bunker at Clark Air Base, but do not believe the team is in danger. The
eruption is on the west side of the mountain, with the summit shielding Clark.
Prevailing winds are also away from the base.;    "I'm not so concerned," said
Pauline Lord, Harlow's wife. "My husband is not unaccustomed to danger.";   
Lord said Harlow's love affair with volcanoes began when he was an
undergraduate student at Dartmouth College and his professor took the entire
class to observe an eruption in Guatemala.;    "He's somebody who's fascinated
by that kind of energy," said Lord, a psychotherapist who has accompanied
Harlow to several volcanoes. "It's wonderful to see that lava sloshing
around.";    Harlow's 5-year-old daughter, Megan, is not worried about her
father.;    "She knows Daddy is in the Philippines and that he's fixing a
volcano," Lord said.