
What's On in Las Vegas is a handy biweekly magazine that lists not only 
entertainment and other attractions around the city, but offers much helpful 
general information, too. 


In its regular feature, "What's On for the Young at Heart," it reports that 
seniors get 25% off regular rates at the St. Tropez Hotel, an all-suite, 
non-gaming hotel on Harmon Avenue off the Strip. Since the offer is subject to 
room availability, reservations are suggested. 


The Palace Station, also off the Strip on Sahara Avenue near Interstate 15, 
offers seniors a $30 rate Sunday through Thursday. And the Four Queens in 
downtown Las Vegas has a $35 rate during the same time period. 


For low-cost senior dining, the magazine suggests, among other places, the 
downtown Gold Strike Inn, which has a $1.99 senior dinner buffet from 3 to 10 
p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. 


The magazine also tells about the Southern Nevada University of Cosmetology, 
which gives a 20% discount on all services Thursday and Friday to those 60 
years and older. The Academy of Hair Design offers a similar discount on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, but sets the age at 62 and older. 


The column also tells of the Las Vegas Transit System's sizable senior offer, 
cited in this column before but worth repeating. All that's necessary is a 
Medicare card to get a 10-ride pass for $4.20. A regular Las Vegas bus ride is 
$1.10. 


The magazine also informs readers of discounts on rental cars, motor scooters, 
even wheelchairs for $5 a day. Other senior deals are for bowling, shopping and 
various attractions. 


Seniors can pick up a copy at any hotel in Las Vegas or send $2.50 to What's On 
in Las Vegas Magazine, 610 S. Third St., Las Vegas, Nev. 89101. 


Also from Las Vegas is a $2 reference guide published by the Las Vegas Advisor. 
It's not specifically for mature travelers, but has good tips for those looking 
for the best deals in meals and entertainment. 


The small-but-handy, single-sheet guide includes other senior-oriented data, 
such as the five casinos in town with penny slots. Other features are the costs 
of all Las Vegas production shows, plus a map and toll-free numbers for all 
casinos and other travel services. Send $2 to Huntington Press, P.O. Box 28042, 
Las Vegas, Nev. 89126 


Chandris Fantasy Cruises has announced a series of senior-saver Caribbean 
cruises for travelers 65 years and over next spring and fall. 


Seniors who are the second occupant in a cabin with a full-fare passenger get 
50% off the regular cruise price, a savings that could be as high as $848 for a 
one-week cruise. That includes round-trip air fare from Los Angeles to the 
cruise departure point. 


Fantasy Cruises include the Amerikanis and the Victoria. For more information, 
contact Chandris Fantasy Cruises at (800) 621-3446 or check with your travel 
agent. 


Mature travelers looking for Thanksgiving tours might want to check with 
Trieloff Tours, a longtime senior tour operator with STRAC. 


Trieloff will serve its Thanksgiving meals for seniors in Hawaii, Key West, 
Mexico and Australia. The meals will be served during a 10-day tour to Hawaii, 
a 13-day Florida tour, a weeklong Mexico cruise and a 22-day tour of the South 
Pacific. For more details or brochures, call Trieloff at (800) 432-7125. 


All nine Sheraton Hotels in Hawaii will repeat the chain's "Gold Guest" program 
from now to Dec. 20, offering a 25% room discount for AARP members and other 
mature travelers age 60 and older. 


At check-in, guests also receive a Golden Guest card that allows additional 
discounts at selected Sheraton restaurants and shows, as well as more savings 
from local merchants and services. 


The 140 Rodeway Inns have been sold to Quality Inns, bringing the chain's 
number of hotels to more than 1,700. Quality Inns has since changed its name to 
Choice Hotels International. 


For now, no changes in senior discounts are planned at any of the hotels, which 
include Quality Inns, Clarion Hotels, Sleep Inns and Rodeway Inns. 

