   Between 1978 and 1981, Congress raised the minimum wage four times. 
Over that period, total U.S. employment rose 9%. 

   From 1981 through 1986, the minimum wage wasn't raised at all. 
And over that period, total U.S. employment also rose by 9%. 

   On the face of it, those figures would seem to resolve the age-old debate over whether increases in the minimum wage cost the economy a significant number of lost jobs. 
Yet now, as Congress moves toward raising the $3.35-an-hour minimum wage for the first time since 1981, the battle rages just as hot and heavy as ever. 

   Conservatives and business groups argue, as they have since the first minimum-wage law took effect in 1938, that employers will seek to cut costs by hiring fewer people -- these days, especially the young and minorities. 
"Higher wages . . . for some will mean jobs lost for those workers who are trying hardest to break into the labor market," warns GOP Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana. 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce forecasts that the proposed wage rise, to $4.65 hourly over three years, with further increases later, would cause the loss of 1.9 million jobs by 1995. 

   Not so, counters University of Pennsylvania economist Gerard Adams. 
He says the increase would affect the unemployment rate by less than one-tenth of a percentage point, and adds: "Estimates of dire consequences to the economy as a result of raising the minimum wage do not stand up to scrutiny." 

   John Zalusky, an economist at the AFL-CIO, which is strongly pushing the minimum-wage increase, snaps: "The whole issue of job loss comes up every time, and there's never been any jobs lost." 
The labor federation notes that since World War II, employment actually increased each time the minimum wage was raised, except in the 1975 recession. 

   The advocates of a higher minimum wage say increases are necessary to offset lost ground. 
In 1968, the minimum wage was about 53% of the average hourly wage of a manufacturing employee. 
Now the minimum amounts to only 34% of the average manufacturing wage. 

   No longer does the minimum wage keep all those who earn it above the poverty level: A full-time minimum-wage worker earns less than $7,000 a year, only 80% of what the government considers sufficient to keep a family of three out of poverty, and only 60% of what's needed for a family of four. 
But for single workers, who comprise about two-thirds of all minimum-wage workers, the pay keeps them about 25% above the poverty level. 

   The debate over raising the wage used to focus on the effect on low-paid, male factory workers. 
But as the economy has changed, so has the group most affected. 
These days, most of those paid the minimum wage are minorities, women, and teen-agers or young adults just entering the work force, often in service jobs. 

   Opponents of boosting the wage floor argue that it is these jobs that are most at risk. 
With youth unemployment nearly three times the overall jobless rate and minority youth unemployment more than six times that rate, "the worst thing we could do is to exacerbate this problem," says Labor Secretary William Brock. 
"That is exactly what raising the minimum wage will do." 

   Ronald Sarasin, a lobbyist for the National Restaurant Association, acknowledges that "we're going to survive" even if the the wage is increased, but warns of the consequences for low-paid workers: "This is less a business issue than a jobs issue." 

   Yet such arguments are hard to prove, based on past evidence. 
For instance, a 1970 report ordered by then-Labor Secretary George Shultz found that general business conditions are the main influence on teen-age employment, with only "hints" of an adverse effect from the minimum wage showing up in the data. 

   In 1981, the staff of the Minimum Wage Study Commission, which was appointed by President Carter, estimated that a 10% increase in the minimum wage would trim teen-age employment demand by about 1%, and that rises in that wage have had little impact on overall unemployment. 

   Among adults, the commission found that if increases in the wage floor lowered employment at all -- which it said isn't clear -- the amount may be so small as to be undetectable with any precision. 
Studies about whether minimum-wage increases hurt, or help, black workers are "all over the lot," says University of Michigan economist Charles Brown. 

   Opponents of raising the minimum wage insist that past increases have had a substantial effect in both layoffs and "disemployment" -- workers not hired who otherwise would have been. 
At the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's annual meeting last April, 29% of attendees said they'd trim their employment and 26% said they'd delay hiring if the minimum-wage bill becomes law. 
William Stone, president of Louisville Plate Glass Co., with 80 workers, says that if the floor is raised, "we have made the decision to pay our current employees overtime during peak workload times rather than hire additional workers." 
Valley Variety, an Ansonia, Conn., dime store that pays employees two cents above the minimum, would forgo its expansion plans for a second store, says owner Richard Armstrong. 

   In many areas, however, a growing shortage of new workers has resulted in more-generous wages for fast-food, retail and other jobs, making the minimum-wage question irrelevant. 
In recent months, Philip Litman, owner of Bradford Stephen Inc., a Worcester, Mass., company with two gift stores, has seen the wage he must pay to get and keep help climb to $6 an hour from $4. 
"The minimum wage has no bearing on what we do -- it's a forgotten issue," he says. 

   And while the National Association of Manufacturers is part of the coalition opposing the increase, it doesn't even include the bill among its half-dozen legislative priorities. 
Many association members already pay well above the wage floor, explains Randolph Hale, a vice president: "It's an important issue, but it's not the end of the world." 

   As a result of those conflicting pressures, Labor Secretary Brock is trying to forge a compromise between the White House and Congress, where the Senate Labor Committee plans to act on a minimum-wage bill this fall, while the House committee plans further hearings. 
In return for administration agreement to raising the wage, Mr. Brock says, Congress must also allow a "youth differential" wage that's lower than the minimum wage, so as not to discourage employers from hiring untrained new job entrants. 
He is also pushing to exempt small business from the wage-floor requirement, and wants legislators to drop a provision that after 1990 would tie the minimum wage to average manufacturing wages. 

   But one way or another, an increase is almost sure to become law. 
A survey of voters for the Service Employees International Union in June showed 71% backing the wage-floor bill; in a Personnel Journal poll, even 60% of corporate personnel officials backed a minimum-wage increase. 

   Besides, observes Iowa GOP Rep. Fred Grandy, a member of the House Labor Committee: "If members of Congress feel they can raise their own pay but not raise the pay of the average low-paid worker, they're mistaken." 