James Murphy, an attorney representing the Treasury Department's Office of Thrift Supervision, repeatedly objected to Keating comparing the numbers from the regulators' April 21 analysis and Keating's own figures on the status of Lincoln's loans and equity holdings as of Dec. A review of campaign records by The Times shows that Keating, his companies and a circle of about 75 family members, associates and employees have showered more than $700,000 in campaign contributions on three dozen federal and state politicians over the last six years. Keating's contributions have come under increased scrutiny since his company, American Continental Corp. of Phoenix, filed for protection from creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on April 13 and Lincoln Savings &amp Loan, its principal subsidiary, was seized by federal regulators the next day. 'Concerned' About Seizure And one of those senators, Democrat Alan Cranston of California, said Friday that he intervened again a month ago by urging federal regulators to allow Keating to sell his embattled S&amp L to a group headed by former Republican Rep. He and the other senators denied that Keating's contributions influenced their actions on behalf of Lincoln. Federal regulators, outraged by losses at similar S&amp Ls across the country, spent much of the last three years poring over the books of Lincoln and American Continental. Timing of Contributions In his case, he said, regulators are raising the campaign contribution issue to hold senators and congressmen in check while the federal agencies deal with Lincoln Savings. Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner said Keating -- pursued by creditors, regulators and prosecutors for his role in the failure of Irvine-based Lincoln Savings &amp Loan -- has significant reasons not to stay around. At the same time, Klausner reduced bail for three Keating co-defendants from the $1 million he imposed Tuesday when the indictment was unsealed against the former operators of American Continental Corp. and its former main subsidiary, Lincoln. Gen. John K. Van de Kamp to investigate Lincoln, said he was willing to let the defendants go without bail on Tuesday because he didn't want to face a difficult battle extraditing Keating from Arizona. Already, regulators have filed a civil racketeering lawsuit accusing Keating and other Lincoln executives of squandering $1.1 billion in federally insured deposits through a series of illegal, fraudulent and imprudent acts. But the government alleges in its racketeering lawsuit and other documents that Lincoln did not owe $95 million in taxes at the time and that American Continental never paid any of that money to the IRS. Last week, government regulators seized control of the Phoenician and another Lincoln property, the Crescent Hotel in Phoenix, ousting Keating and as many as 30 of his associates from management of the lodges. Seizure Occurs The government finally seized Lincoln on April 14, 1989, declaring that it was being operated in an unsafe and unsound manner and that Keating and his executives were dissipating its assets. Lincoln's regular depositors would be made whole by taxpayers through the federal deposit insurance program, but the 22,000 investors who had bought the American Continental debt securities were left holding worthless paper. The governor has said that he met Keating only once and never knew of Lincoln's financial woes until he read about them in newspaper reports this year. * Keating and associates gave $176,500 to other state political organizations and politicians. George Deukmejian's top campaign fund-raiser, Los Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian, defend his actions as one of Keating's attorneys, hired to represent the Arizona businessman's interests before state regulators. After the hearing, Samuelian said he helped set up Keating's meetings in February and March, 1988, with Transportation and Housing Secretary Geoghegan, a Deukmejian appointee whose agency oversees the state's savings and loan and corporations regulators. Wall, who previously headed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is under fire for not acting on a recommendation by regional regulators to seize Lincoln in 1987. James Grogan also told the Senate Ethics Committee he remembers more than one occasion on which Cranston or his aides sought contributions from Keating while at the same time promising to assist Lincoln in its battle against federal regulators. Grogan contradicted testimony by Jordan concerning a written statement she inserted into the Congressional Record on Cranston's behalf in 1987 that assisted Lincoln in a pending court suit against the bank board. 12. A Los Angeles federal grand jury has spent more than two years investigating Keating, his family and officers and directors of Lincoln and its parent company, Phoenix's American Continental Corp. Testifying in Mr. Keating's court challenge to the takeover, Mr. Seibold said lots of documents -- loan and credit files -- were missing when an FDIC team swept through Lincoln's offices in Phoenix, Ariz., April 14, 1989. 