Presidential advisers are counseling Mr. Bush to stay away from the dispute over whether Judge Thomas is guilty of the charges of sexual harassment.President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment?And Ms. Hill will also be asked why she didn't broach her sexual-harassment charges in confirmation hearings for earlier posts that Judge Thomas won.Civil-rights groups that have opposed Judge Thomas are in an especially awkward position.Specter will want to be sure that Judge Thomas didn't lie to him.The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination.The Thomas handlers Although the White House is arguing that Judge Thomas is preparing his defense himself, the team that prepped the nominee for his hearings is under enormous pressure to redeem itself and salvage the situation.The Republican questioners They want to support Judge Thomas without appearing to be winking at sexual harassment.In the narrowest sense, Judge Thomas and Ms. Hill are staking their own reputations, personal credibility and careers on this session.And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, he can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas.Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas has to answer whether he dated, or tried to date, Ms. Hill.He is already on record as criticizing the nominee for fleeing from his record, arguing that Judge Thomas "jettisoned one public statement after another like a captain trying to keep his ship afloat."She has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired.Howell Heflin, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, is a conservative Democrat who waffled on the Thomas nomination and then opposed it, criticizing the nominee's evasiveness and suggesting he might be a right-wing ideologue.Moreover, the group's strategy of having Judge Thomas be as general and evasive as possible during the hearings -- insisting at one point that he had no opinion on the Supreme Court's landmark abortion ruling -- created a credibility problem that has haunted the nomination.Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, like Mr. Leahy a former prosecutor, has already spoken to Judge Thomas about Ms. Hill's charges.If the effort against Judge Thomas fizzles and the organizations are seen to have grossly overreached, their credibility will be badly damaged in any future battles.He is likely to deplore sexual harassment but ask why Ms. Hill waited to come forward.Joseph Biden The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Biden is being accused of not treating these charges seriously enough.Some argue that Mr. Bush would do better to lose the battle -- the nomination of Thomas -- than win the battle and lose a much bigger war.