"It's a very real possibility," said Mr. Greenfield, who has filed several cases against Mr. Milken.Most shareholder cases are settled, and Mr. Greenfield says he has had only two jury trials in the past six years, while handling scores of suits.While the Unocal suit claims enormous damages to shareholders, a suit filed by Mr. Greenfield's firm in February may be even broader.Realistically, it's highly unlikely that the civil cases against Mr. Milken will ever go to trial.Steven Rosenfeld, an attorney for Mr. Milken, says there are "no plans whatsoever" for his client to seek bankruptcy-court protection.Nonetheless, the plaintiff's lawyers agree that winning a trial against Mr. Milken wouldn't be easy.He says he believes that once one case "breaks through" to trial, Mr. Milken will have no choice but to start settling the rest of the cases.While some shareholder attorneys routinely file multimillion-dollar suits whenever a takeover is announced or the market drops, the suits against Mr. Milken seem to be much more likely to succeed than most.A civil case is always easier to prove than a criminal case because the civil plaintiff doesn't have to prove his charges beyond a reasonable doubt.Mr. Bromberg and others assert that Mr. Liman, Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, negotiated to make the plea agreement narrow enough so that little of what Mr. Milken admitted to can be used against him in the civil suits.Those charges could be exceedingly helpful to plainitffs lawyers building civil cases against him.Also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against Mr. Boesky, Drexel, Mr. Milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations.Mr. Greenfield's firm filed the suit along with plaintiff lawyer William S. Lerach of the shareholder law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie and Lerach."It can't be proven by a handful of witnesses and a handful of documents," says Mr. Greenfield.Attorneys for Mr. Milken dismiss the suggestion as absurd and say Mr. Milken's potential liability won't be nearly so extensive.