Still, Dr. Brown and other scientists aren't much worried about mad cows because their animal studies show spongiform disease is very hard to transmit orally.At least not until the Poltar journalist and two other people died of CJD at about the same time in a rural, sheep-herding part of eastern Czechoslovakia.Now more than 10 British cats have died of it, suggesting brains from infected sheep or cows got into cat food.Indeed, CJD is a nefarious trickster; the first reported case of the disease, which entered medical texts in the 1920s, really wasn't CJD after all, scientists now believe.But they also have introduced a new riddle, says Dr. Gajdusek: Why has the genetic defect, which has apparently existed for decades in some Eastern Europeans, turned deadly only in the past 15 years or so?Yet sheep have never been strongly implicated in cases of the human form of the disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, or CJD.Scrapie has existed for centuries and "the world is bathed" in its infectious agent, says Dr. Gajdusek.In the early 1980s, scientists discovered that CJD, like Alzheimer's disease, often gums up the brain with a kind of junk, or "amyloid," protein.Based on the clues, Dr. Gajdusek, back at NIH, led studies in the 1960s showing kuru, CJD and scrapie to be essentially the same infectious disease, studies that won the 1976 Nobel Prize for medicine.And it usually strikes so rarely and randomly -- killing about one in a million people world-wide each year -- that scientists didn't even begin to suspect it was infectious until 1957.When formed in a brain cell, a molecule of such stuff might be "like a bad apple in a barrel converting all the other apples," says the NIH's Dr. Brown.Perhaps the mad cows got such doses "every time they went to the feedbag," says Dr. Brown.If they're right, such self-replicating proteins might be representatives of an ancient twilight zone between life and nonlife-evolution's bridge between molecules and microbes.The question has burned with special intensity since scrapie, the form of the disease in sheep, jumped to British cattle a few years ago after they were fed ground-up parts of infected sheep.Now villagers there call CJD "our sheep disease."But Dr. Brown's excitement grew when three other, unrelated CJD victims were found to carry the same genetic defect.Soon kuru victims' brains started issuing from the heart of darkness to distant medical centers, compliments of Dr. Gajdusek.During the past few months, the NIH team, working with Dr. Mitrova, has found a thread that for the first time may link many such CJD cases.En route, he heard that a primitive New Guinea tribe, the Fore, were dying in droves from an unknown brain disorder they called kuru, "the shivering disease," because it started with tremors.