A prosecutor calls it "witchcraft" and a psychologist says it's as reliable as a coin toss. After years of debate, court rulings and federal legislation, use of the polygraph has dropped sharply, despite supporters who insist the test is a good indicator of whether someone is telling a lie. "They have been useless and give misleading information," said Leonard Saxe, a visiting professor of psychology at Brandeis University and a leading opponent of polygraph testing. Last week, the state Supreme Court banned lie detector tests from being introduced as evidence in criminal trials. The court, noting polygraph studies have shown success rates varying from 95 percent to just above 50 percent, said: "There remains no consensus among experts as to the accuracy of polygraph testing to detect deceit." "I think it's appropriate to seek if someone is lying, and the most appropriate way is to seek evidence," said Judy Crockett, who fought on behalf of the federal law for the American Civil Liberties Union. The federal law, which took effect a year ago, has taken a big bite out of the polygraph business. "There's been a definite decline in the private sector," said Chris Fausett, product manager for Lafayette Instrument Co., based in Lafayette, Ind., one of the country's largest makers of polygraph machines. Reading from a Defense Department statement regarding the use of polygraphs, Turner said: "In all instances the polygraph exam process produced data of important security or criminal significance which was not otherwise obtainable. Many states allow polygraph evidence to be introduced if both the prosecution and defense agree. New Mexico is the one state where either party can introduce a polygraph examination as evidence, with the trial judge deciding whether the tests meet certain standards. David Raskin, a University of Utah psychologist often called upon to support polygraphs in the courtroom, said he favored the federal law because lie detectors were being misused to predict future performance in the workplace. 