The attack on Clarence Thomas, which boggled tens of millions of viewing Americans, makes sense only if one understands that the roots of the struggle extend back to 1980 and Ronald Reagan's election to the presidency. One of the most persistent arguments of those who opposed the Reagan era was that it was a fluke, that he was simply not elected President because people agreed with his conservative political philosophy. We have argued continuously during these years that this argument was false, that the voters had indeed entrusted Ronald Reagan with a mandate (his campaign positions were clear) and that the losing side was trying to overturn the results of these elections. This doesn't mean that the American people support Judge Thomas -- or Robert Bork or Ronald Reagan -- in every detail of their political beliefs. We don't doubt, however, that in terms of the presidency or the Supreme Court, voters are willing to risk disappointment on discrete issues if they approve the fundamental direction. The difference, however, between the American people and the permanent political establishment in Washington is that Washington no longer feels constrained by the American political system. It won't wait for the next election, nor -- more importantly -- will it make the effort to persuade the electorate to support its views of Supreme Court nominations. Washington's reporters, who had already largely broken away from the editorial controls of traditional journalism, even broke away from the congressional staffs and special-interest groups, building the sexual harassment story into a bonfire of personal and political grievances. Now, with Clarence Thomas heading for the Court and the voters going back to their daily lives, what has been learned? The Democratic Party has to decide whether its future lies with the world view of the special-interest groups and anonymous congressional staff, or with people such as Bill Clinton, Doug Wilder, Paul Tsongas and others, mostly beyond-the-Beltway governors, trying to conform the party's historic ideals to the temper of the modern electorate. The congressional and White House Republicans should have learned that in a period of divided government, they can only win, as here, by abandoning their traditional passivity in favor of going on the offensive, and without apology. But history will note that at the moment Clarence Thomas was about to be destroyed by the old order, the American people came forward and by the millions confirmed his appointment to the Supreme Court. 