This one would do that and more: draw attention to threats against nature and to the need for international cooperation in protecting Antarctica. Steger and Etienne enlisted scientists and explorers from the Soviet Union, China, Japan and Great Britain for a seven-month, 4,000-mile trip. The other members of the team are glaciologist Qin Dahe of China; Geoff Somers, who has spent 42 months in Antarctica with the British Antarctic Survey; and Keizo Funatsu of Japan, a former economist who turned to dog-sledding and adventure. Steger, who in the past has picked his own teams, says he is honored that the Soviet Union and China will be sending official representatives. Steger recalled that when he asked if Boyarsky spoke English, a Soviet official replied: "In one year, he will speak English very well." The USSR also plans to send a military cargo plane to pick up the team from its rendezvous at Steger's Minnesota camp; the U.S. State Department, while not officially sanctioning the trek, is expected to let the plane land. After refueling in Cuba, the team will fly to the Great Wall Base, about 600 miles south of the tip of South America. Vostok, the coldest place on Earth, will serve as a base for a French documentary film crew that will travel with the expedition for three weeks, and for the team's pilot. By March, the trekkers should reach the Soviet base of Mirnyy on the east coast, also known as Queen Mary Coast, ending the longest possible traverse. "We want the world to know much, much more about Antarctica after our expedition than it did before we set out," Steger said. Antarctica's 5.4 million square miles is more than China and India combined. Some want to see the continent cut into pie-shaped wedges, but Steger wants the people of the world to demand that it be protected, intact. Planetary warming of just a few degrees could melt the polar ice caps, raising sea level and flooding coastal areas, but Steger said it's simplistic to worry about submerged cities. With 85 percent of the planet's fresh water stored in the snow and ice of Antarctica, a thaw would reduce the salinity of the oceans, change ocean currents and wreak havoc with weather patterns. The other environmental nightmare awakening interest in Antarctica is the discovery of a giant hole in the ozone layer directly over the continent. Scientists predict continued ozone depletion will increase skin cancer, but such thinking is "myopic," Steger said. These ominous changes are most apparent in Antarctica, making it "like a canary in a mine," Steger said. The team will be under the ozone hole for about 40 days and 500 miles as they cross a 13,000-foot high plateau known as the Area of Inaccessibility. The team will carry a monitor and Boyarsky will record ozone levels at regular intervals, the first cross-section of ozone across the continent. Qin will take snow and ice samples all the way across Antarctica, recording temperatures and oxygen content for a geological history of the icecap. 