Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes, but it is most prevalent among minorities, especially Native Americans, blacks and Hispanics. More than 150,000 Americans die from diabetes each year; another 150,000 deaths are diabetes-related, according to the American Diabetes Association. An epidemiologist at the center, Dr. Michael Stern, has devoted 10 years to studying Hispanic diabetes and led the grassroots study of Type II diabetes. Stern said family studies of diabetic patients are brining him closer to finding the gene that triggers the disease. A genetic marker might identify people who are susceptible, which could lead to a screening test, he said. Stern believes if people exercised more and ate less of the fat-saturated foods common to the diets of low-income Hispanics, fewer would get the disease. "We don't know why, when they get diabetes, they have a more severe form of the disease _ whether it's a biological difference or is it that they are not getting as good medical care. "Also, Mexican-Americans tend to have more body fat in their upper torso and we can see that as related to diabetes." Researchers believe that poor Hispanics' diets of cheap, processed foods, lack of exercise and infrequent medical attention _ either due to poverty or a cultural bias against doctors _ increases their risk of acquiring diabetes. The study is in its follow-up stage, to see if diagnosed diabetes patients have changed their lifestyle and have sought medical care. She was told that because of her weight, 254 pounds, she had hypertension and was at risk of diabetes. "My mother has diabetes and they tell me I might have diabetes, too, but I don't know too much about it. DeFronzo, who in 1988 was chosen the top diabetes investigator by Canadian and Japanese diabetes associations, says his unit at the Health Science Center will try to use many of Stern's patients for research. "The problem with Type II diabetics is not that they don't make enough insulin; they don't respond to the insulin," DeFronzo said. 