If Robert Bork's Supreme Court confirmation hearings this week can be said to have had a moment of epiphany, it came Wednesday morning. Judge Bork isn't Justice Holmes, though he is probably one of the half-dozen best qualified Supreme Court nominees since Holmes. He is surely the most prolific, as well, and so the capital's standing army of activists and senators has this week been busily replaying everything he ever wrote or said, all in an attempt to prove he is a judicial extremist, a threat to the republic. Judge Bork defended himself well this week, with scholarly precision and often with humor, but in Washington reasonableness alone is not enough to win a seat on the Court. The idea is to raise such a public furor about the nominee's extremism that the fanatic moderates who often hold the balance of power in the Senate won't dare risk guilt by association by voting in favor. A group known as People for the American Way papered Washington with ads headlining the case of Robert Bork vs. The People, suggesting, apparently, that anyone who supports Judge Bork opposes the people, not to mention the American way. The same ads implied that Judge Bork had no objection to sterilizing workers, didn't believe in any right to privacy, and just might Turn the clock back on civil rights? The questioning, however, left little doubt about its goal -- to suggest that Judge Bork cares not at all for the rights of women, of minorities, of the press, or of pretty much anyone else. Judge Bork explained -- as he has dozens of times before -- his moral dilemma in seeking as solicitor general to follow the orders of a president, yet also keep the special prosecutor team from disbanding. Isn't Judge Bork in effect a racist because he once opposed that part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that outlawed discrimination in public places? implied Sen. Judge Bork explained that he was concerned at the time about government coercion in private decisions, but that he had retracted that position more than a decade ago. So Americans were left with the spectacle of this distinguished judge and scholar having to plead in public that he is not a bigot, that, indeed, he had once persuaded the senior partners in his Chicago law firm to end their quota on Jewish attorneys. Judge Bork's supporters in the White House believe that all of this helped his cause, that it proved he wasn't, as one put it, a neanderthal. If Judge Bork is not confirmed, however, the record of this week suggests that the reason will result less from his own failings than from the ferocity and distortions of his opponents. 