The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United States took a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Hussein called President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy war could bring thousands of Americans home in coffins. Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from his vacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimistic about a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasion of oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on the border of Saudi Arabia. After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with King Hussein of Jordan, Bush said, "I did not come away with any feeling of hope" that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait. Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordan would close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as the economic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated. Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bush administration plans to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to back up the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already in place in the gulf and the Saudi desert. At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III said Jordan "is seeking some guidance" about a provision in the U.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarian purposes. "Very few" of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait complied with the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press. A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than 450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq has continued to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they now number about 160,000. In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday, Saddam repeatedly called Bush "a liar" and said a shooting war could produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad. An international land, sea and air force has mobilized since Iraq's invasion, which was sparked by disputes over oil, land and repayment of war loans. The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq. Bush was expected to authorize naval commanders to use "the minimum force necessary" to interdict shipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they have engaged in "a little cat and mouse" with Iraqi warplanes, which have retreated when weapons radar locks onto them. In Kuwait, the Iraqis have rimmed the capital city with an air-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The quarantine hopes to staunch the flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, and clamp down on food and supplies going in. Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to press the king to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqaba on the Red Sea. A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates, streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highway bound for Iraq. Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N. Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Council meeting in Geneva to remove U.S. forces. Reports attributed to the Japanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European and Japanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supply in September. Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency said Thursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt, which led to "large-scale" arrests, including some close associates of the Iraqi strongman. 