He is one of 14 foreign hostages, including nine Americans, missing and believed held in Lebanon. 29 _ Beirut television stations broadcast videotaped birthday message from relatives and friends to Anderson. 8 _ In an open letter, Anderson and three other American captives held by Islamic Jihad call on Reagan to "have mercy" and negotiate with kidnappers. 15 _ Anderson's father, Glenn R. Anderson, dies of cancer at age 69. June 7 _ Anderson's 46-year-old brother, Glenn Richard Jr., dies of cancer four days after making a videotape from his bed appealing to Terry's captors. Lawrence Martin Jenco, freed after almost 19 months as hostage, says he was held with Anderson and two other hostages for a year. 31 _ Beirut TV stations broadcast videotape showing Anderson's 16-month-old daughter, whom he has never seen. 2 _ Jacobsen, freed after 17 months in captivity, says hostages "are in hell." 15 _ Islamic Jihad releases new picture of Anderson. 28 _ Fourth picture of Anderson sent by captors to Western news agency in Beirut. 16 _ Islamic Jihad distributes another picture of Anderson. 2 _ Sixth photo of Anderson released by Islamic Jihad. 21 _ Islamic Jihad releases another photo of Anderson. 26 _ Jacobsen says he learned from sources in the U.S. government and the Middle East that Anderson is being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day. 10 _ Anderson passes his 1,000th day as a hostage. 24 _ Islamic Jihad release a videotape of Anderson. 30 _ A London newspaper reports that a CIA analysis of the tape indicated Anderson may be held in Basta prison in west Beirut with missing Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite. 1988 March 16 _ Anderson begins his fourth year in captivity. May 9 _ Release French hostage Marcel Fontaine, also held by Islamic Jihad, says Anderson's greatest fear is that the Americans will launch a commando raid to free him, an action he believes would mean his certain death. 21 _ Islamic Jihad threatens to "punish" its captives in retaliation for Israeli air raids in south Lebanon. 23 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by a photo of Anderson, that its American hostages will a price that "will reflect adversely" on them if the group's demands are not met. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S. hostage. 27 _ Anderson is 41, his fourth birthday in captivity. 31 _ Islamic Jihad issues a videotape of Anderson to mark his 41st birthday. 