James Grogan also told the Senate Ethics Committee he remembers more than one occasion on which Cranston or his aides sought contributions from Keating while at the same time promising to assist Lincoln in its battle against federal regulators. Grogan, a surprise witness who testified under a limited grant of immunity from prosecution, said there was never a trade-off between Keating's contributions and his request for assistance. He provided important new details of Cranston's close alliance with Keating and contradicted earlier testimony by Cranston aides Joy Jacobson and Carolyn D. Jordan. A short time later, according to Grogan, he received a telephone call from Jacobson, the senator's fund-raiser. He said she repeated Cranston's contention that he had been very supportive of California thrifts and asked him if Keating would raise money for the senator. Grogan indicated he was surprised by this aggressive appeal for money because Keating is a conservative Republican who opposes abortion, and Cranston is a liberal Democrat who is an abortion rights advocate. He said he later persuaded Keating to assist Cranston by telling him that the senator shared his negative opinion of then-Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman Edwin J. Gray. In April, 1985, as a result of Cranston's appeal for funds, Keating collected $15,000 in checks from his employees for the California senator. It was the first of nearly $1 million that Cranston solicited from Keating -- $60,000 for his campaigns, $85,000 for the California Democratic Party and $850,000 for voter registration groups founded by the senator. At the same time, Grogan emphasized that Keating did not always have Cranston's support for his proposals. Cranston, whom I believe we gave the most money to, there were several times specifically when I went to his office and asked him, on behalf of Mr. Keating, to take action. Grogan contradicted earlier testimony by Jacobson, who said that she -- not Cranston -- was approached at the 1984 Democratic National Convention by Grogan, who offered to be helpful to the reelection campaign. He said that Keating, who eventually developed a warm friendship with Cranston, usually waited until the end of his meetings with the senator to discuss contributions. Under questioning by special counsel Robert S. Bennett, Grogan detailed the following occasions on which he said Cranston or his aides allegedly sought contributions while at the same time pledging to assist Keating with regulators: -- In late 1986, when the Senate was considering legislation that would have imposed restraints on Keating's management of Lincoln, Grogan tried to contact Jordan, Cranston's aide on the Banking Committee, for assistance in battling the proposal. She asked him whether Cranston could get a personal loan for his reelection campaign from Lincoln. As a result, Cranston's campaign subsequently received a $300,000 line of credit from Lincoln that he never used. -- In September, 1987, Grogan personally delivered two checks totaling $250,000 for voter registration to Cranston in his office in the Capitol. Grogan and Cranston then discussed Lincoln's problems, with Keating joining the conversation over the office speaker phone. Keating asked Cranston to contact then-bank board Chairman M. Danny Wall on Lincoln's behalf, and the senator agreed. -- In January, 1988, Grogan, Keating, Cranston, Cranston's son, Kim, and Kim's then-girlfriend, actress Shelley Duvall, had dinner together at Jimmy's restaurant in Los Angeles. Cranston has previously acknowledged that both contributions and assistance for Lincoln were discussed at the dinner. Grogan contradicted testimony by Jordan concerning a written statement she inserted into the Congressional Record on Cranston's behalf in 1987 that assisted Lincoln in a pending court suit against the bank board. Grogan also contradicted Riegle's statement that he did not arrange meetings between the five senators and federal regulators in early April, 1987. 