Currently on the Federal Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C., Judge Bork is recognized as perhaps this country's most distinguished judicial scholar. Commenting on Judge Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court, Geoffrey Stone, dean of the University of Chicago Law School, called it a four-star appointment and commented that it was rare to get anyone with anywhere near his credentials. Judge Bork's elevation to the Supreme Court may very well tip the balance toward this neutrality of interpretation, and there are those who fear that the court -- no longer able to do what the individual justices may think is good or moral or right -- will reject activist social, economic and criminal-justice agendas. The Constitution, however, commands a neutral-principled approach to judicial decision making, and a Bork confirmation would help restore the balance among the three branches of government the framers so carefully crafted. Two hundred years ago in Philadelphia, the delegates to the Constitutional Convention considered a proposal to join executive and judicial authority in a council of revision - a body that would have authority to reject and reshape laws enacted by the legislature. Later, in explaining the Constitution he helped to forge, Alexander Hamilton called the judiciary the least dangerous branch, despite the life tenure for federal judges, because it had neither FORCE nor WILL but merely judgment and because it could take no active resolution whatever in policy matters when that would require a choice among competing legitimate social values. Law making -- policy making -- by judges has become so pervasive that, of late, many see it as the judicial function against which potential judges must be measured. This bottom-line mentality is why Judge Bork's nomination is at risk even though Judge Bork recognizes that constitutional interpretation must be sufficiently flexible to accommodate changing times. This is how he put it in a September 1985 interview, which appeared in Judicial Notice: The job of a judge is to understand the principle that the framers were trying to protect, and apply that principle in today's circumstances, which the framers could not have foreseen. Far from being ideologically partisan, as some have charged, Judge Bork holds fast to a neutral-principled approach irrespective of whose ox is being gored: The sin of wanting judges to do good things simply because the electorate won't do them, he explained in the same interview, is not confined to liberalism. In many respects, the judiciary has become the master branch of government because we have permitted judges' personal views to supplant the rule of established law. 