The Associated Press went back to track where the $3.9 billion went and found the money spread far beyond the drought. </TEXT> <BYLINE>By SCOTT McCARTNEY</BYLINE> <BYLINE>and FRED BAYLES</BYLINE> <BYLINE>Associated Press Writers</BYLINE> <TEXT> The record $3.9 billion drought relief program of 1988, hailed as salvation for small farmers devastated by a brutal dry spell, became much more _ an unexpected, election-year windfall for thousands of farmers who collected millions of dollars for nature's normal quirks. An Associated Press study conducted over seven months found the drought relief bill paid cash to farmers for everything from hail-damaged kiwi fruit in California to heat-stressed radicchio in Massachusetts, rain-bloated tomatoes in New Jersey and washed-out bird seed in Colorado. By the time checks were being written at the county level, the AP found, fellow farmers elected to locally administer federal agriculture programs were approving claims for such common perils as insects, sand, wind, cold and fungus, even "ineffective herbicide." "We lucked out last year on account of the boys up north," said Travis Turnipseed, a Levelland, Texas, cotton farmer who's had hail damage 23 out of the last 28 years, but collected cash for the first time in 1988. In the end, drought relief became a one-time bonus for thousands of farmers in parts of the country that in 1988 generally enjoyed good crops at higher prices and wouldn't have qualified as disaster areas, including parts of California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Maryland and New Jersey. "It was there, so I took it," said Melvin Przilas, a wheat and corn farmer in the Texas Panhandle who collected $2,254 because hail and Russian wheat aphids damaged his 1,265-acre irrigated farm, which grosses $300,000 to $400,000 a year. Government officials say they did the best they could with a rushed program. "Some farmers just got grandfathered in, that's true," said Dan Shaw, deputy administrator of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, which administers payment programs for the Agriculture Department. Those growers profited by "triple-dipping": reaping crop insurance as well as drought aid on damaged crops, then replanting the same ground for a successful harvest _ all perfectly legal under the 1988 program. Disaster payments in several states also went to banks, corporations, investment firms, churches and even local governments such as the city of Littlefield, Texas, despite regulations designed to match benefits to small farmers. Despite all the apparent misapplications of aid, the program did provide crucial assistance to farmers wracked by severe drought. In North Dakota, the hardest-hit state, farmers lost an estimated $1.1 billion to the drought, but direct federal aid cut that by 36 percent, to $706 million. In Iowa the aid, calculated by the federal government at $335 million, went a long way, state agriculture secretary Dale Cochran said. To examine the program, the AP interviewed agriculture experts in 21 states then chose 14 states whose rainfall data and drought payments were matched county by county in a computer database. Because much of the ASCS paperwork never leaves the counties, reporters then traveled to 22 county offices in eight states to examine more detailed drought program files for 346 specific farmers, also available under the FOIA. Gresham readily offers that he and his son operate their farms under five different names precisely because of federal payment limitations _ in the case of drought aid, $100,000 per farmer. Because of hail damage, Gresham and his companies collected $248,662 from the drought program, plus $159,478 from federal crop insurance. According to government program formulas, Gresham grossed nearly $100,000 more than had he grown his cotton successfully. 