1. Abandoning his from politics to politics stance, which is that politics is self-justifying and self-sufficient, Patten has now woven politics into the lives of the people of Hong Kong, making it part and parcel of the local way of life and inseparable from the war on corruption, the rule of law, freedom, education, and the quality of governance -- all perennial concerns in Chinese society. [passage omitted] Now Patten takes life in Hong Kong as his point of departure, arguing that democratic politics of a high quality are what the people of Hong Kong need to maintain the Hong Kong system. After Patten came to Hong Kong, the Chinese could no longer keep acting anti-democratic. Now that Patten has made politics an integral part of the life of the Hong Kong people and their institutions, can the Chinese continue to counter it with the argument that it is all a matter of trust between nations? He hopes that as it advances with big strides into the 21st century, Hong Kong will be like a beacon, shining brightly as if to announce its glorious achievements. (Section 190) After the governor presented his first annual report to the Legislative Council last year, the Chinese authorities initially took a heavy-handed approach. Even as public approval of Patten slipped and opposition rose, anti-Chinese feelings in Hong Kong also gained ground. 3. Patten's second annual report to the Legislative Council is replete with praises for the people of Hong Kong, for their accomplishments, and for the superiority of the Hong Kong system, calling it a miracle of human society. Of course this is the stock in trade of politicians in every democratic country, but it also shows that the relationship between the ruler and the ruled under a democratic system is just what the people of Hong Kong need psychologically at this point in time. Having inherited the tradition of the Qing Dynasty and the Republic of China, the Chinese Communists have always considered Hong Kong alien land. It is hard for the Chinese to sing the praises of the Hong Kong system, Hong Kong people, and Hong Kong society. What Patten said about Hong Kong's values and its superiority were all satirized by the Chinese media, so much so that one could hardly tell right from wrong anymore. If China continues its negative attitude toward Hong Kong, what sort of price will it have to pay? If, on the other hand, it echoes Patten and begins heaping praises on Hong Kong and emulating the Hong Kong system, can the Chinese Government bring itself to do that? Would praising Hong Kong send a wrong message to the local people, misleading them into thinking that China would compromise with Patten and go along with him? A dozen or so public opinion surveys by the Hong Kong Statistical and Business Research Council invariably came up with one finding: The people of Hong Kong want both sides to make concessions and reach an accord. Now that Patten has made the first move by taking the initiative to give way, naturally the public wants the Chinese side to make corresponding concessions in order to narrow the difference between the two sides. If they continue to insist that Patten is guilty of the three violations and refuse to make adjustments and concessions, they would have a lot of ideological work to do on the Hong Kong people, besides giving Patten a reason to withdraw from the talks. The Chinese wavered on the through train idea and the British came up with their own set of arrangements for the 1995 elections. Since the controversy was triggered off by China's plan to scrap the through train proposal, would it make concessions on this very issue? One year after arriving in Hong Kong, Patten has certainly commanded much authority with his solid political ideas. Public statements by Chinese officials to this date still contain a lot of empty bureaucratic gobbledygook, devoid of a spirit of seeking truth from facts. Patten demonstrates the modern Western political approach while the Chinese remain wedded to propagating the superiority of big, complete, and all-powerful government going back thousands of years. Patten makes endless allusions to what is good about the Hong Kong system and what is bad about the Chinese system, one obvious example being the way the two governments level with the people. Even more striking is the open dialogue and debate that took place in an atmosphere of freedom between Patten and the people of Hong Kong on an equal plane after the governor presented his second annual report (in which the Chinese authorities also played an active part). He spent a lot of time emphasizing the close ties between China and Hong Kong and the numerous connections between the two, including cooperation in administrative matters and environmental protection. Sino-Hong Kong relations mean China learning from Hong Kong's value system and success story and Hong Kong drawing support form China's strengths. Patten said, When many places in the world identify with Hong Kong's value system and seek to duplicate its success story, would the world become a better place, a more prosperous place? (Section 182) Patten took the initiative to define the relations between China and Hong Kong, giving substance to their contacts as well as clarifying the nature of such relations. China has always looked at Hong Kong unilaterally from top to bottom, demanding that it fall in line with China and not the other way round. The kind of Sino-Hong Kong relations China wants is one in which Hong Kong complies with all China's orders and satisfies every Chinese demand. Whatever the merits of the case, no matter who represents progress and who represents backwardness, the Chinese want Hong Kong to simply blend itself into the entity known as China. As for making the Hong Kong system living, automatic, and autonomous, the relations between China and the special entity of Hong Kong, how the two should be integrated and to what extent, as well as the costs and benefits of such integration... none of that has been considered at length. A major incompatibility in Sino-Hong Kong relations is that the sovereign body, namely China, is large but backward, whereas Hong Kong, which has no sovereignty, is small but advanced. A unilateral emphasis on China's sovereignty would result in integration of a regressive type, meaning that an advanced Hong Kong would have to reach down to accommodate a backward China. How to define Sino-Hong Kong relations down to the details is a major challenge facing Hong Kong in the future. 7. In his annual report to the Legislative Council, Patten noted subtly and not so subtly that where Hong Kong was free to make up its mind, things had gone well in the past year, but where consultation with China was necessary, nothing seemed to have worked well. In Section 172, he said....outstanding achievements have been scored on all fronts during the past year...with one lone exception, which was Hong Kong's effort to further its understanding with China and replace unproductive speculation with sincere trust. (Section 174) The reason is that we still have not been able to convince Chinese officials that Hong Kong citizens' expectations about the development of their political system are in no way excessive but are reasonable and should be met, that they form part of the natural evolution of a society as it matures and becomes more sophisticated. Last year the Chinese tried to shoot down Patten's political reform plan in an overbearing way by resorting to economic pressure, ready and willing to destroy all three parties. What the Chinese wanted to prove was that Patten would not be able to accomplish a thing without China's cooperation, that he would end up with not just one broken leg, but two broken legs. The people of Hong Kong might blame the Chinese Government for the delay in solving all those problems that need to be tackled urgently. 