Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) has said that the Senate is entitled to a direct, categorical answer on Judge Thomas's stance on abortion, and on Roe v. Thurgood Marshall's example makes it plain, though, that Mr. Thomas may refuse to give that categorical answer. During the Marshall hearings in 1967, the issue of the day was not abortion but crime, and the most controversial case was Miranda v. But Mr. Marshall held firm, stating that future cases would be related to interpretations of Miranda, and that the issue of crime was still very controversial. Sam Ervin (D., N.C.) attempted to get Mr. Marshall to discuss the case law that preceded Miranda, in much the same way that Sen. Ervin, exasperated, pointed out that since the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is so broad that a case on practically any issue might come before it, Mr. Marshall's theory meant that the committee would have a difficult time asking any questions about Mr. Marshall's judicial philosophy. It is a problem, Mr. Marshall said, though a problem for the committee, not the nominee. In the end, Mr. Marshall would comment only on such long-decided cases as the Gibbons v. Ogden case of 1824, which concerned issues of such vintage that they were no longer controversial. But such personal experiences are irrelevant to the work of a justice of the Supreme Court, according to Thurgood Marshall. The intellectual leaders of the coalition that defeated the Bork nomination, notably Laurence Tribe in his 1987 book, God Bless This Honorable Court, insisted that the Senate had the right -- and the responsibility -- to scrutinize a nominee's general political or judicial philosophy. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), whose primary contribution to the Marshall hearings was elucidating the normative guidelines for senators. We are not seeking a nominee for the Supreme Court who will express the majority view of the Senate on every given issue, or on a given issue of fundamental importance. Hruska had received letters stating that Mr. Marshall was too liberal for the Supreme Court, that he would upset the balance between liberals and conservatives. The nominating power lies with the president of the United States; and if it is his desire to appoint someone he considers a liberal, that is his prerogative. Several other issues were brought up during the Marshall hearings that have a bearing on Judge Thomas's case. Kennedy believed that because Mr. Marshall had been moved through the Judiciary Committee before, the Senate could move expeditiously ahead with his confirmation. Mr. Marshall had been accused of having communist ties, in part because in one case he cited a work by Herbert Aptheker, a leading U.S. communist theoretician. Committee Chairman James Eastland (D., Miss.) raised this issue, but only to allow Mr. Marshall to clarify the facts, and to state that he was not a communist. In the case of Judge Thomas, blackness ought to be regarded the same way. The fact that Mr. Thomas's judicial views are not the same as those of Thurgood Marshall is a reflection of the increasingly pluralistic nature of black society, but hardly an issue worthy of senatorial consideration. 