What he had stumbled upon was village banking, a system of investment using small revolving loans to poor women to finance their private enterprise, allowing them to create savings while paying interest and qualifying for bigger loans. What Hatch envisioned on that plane five years ago has translated into 400 village banks in nine countries with more than 35,000 members. Hatch, a one-time Peace Corps volunteer with a doctorate in economic development, is founder and president of the non-profit Foundation for International Community Assistance, which recently moved its headquarters from Tucson to Alexandria, Va. There is "almost a 100 percent guarantee" that increased income for women will go into improvements in their children's welfare, Hatch says. Lawrence Yanovitch, small enterprise development program coordinator for Catholic Relief Services in Baltimore, Md., says, "John Hatch is close to the voice of the poor. Catholic Relief Services entered a five-year, $1 million joint venture a year ago with the U.S. Agency for International Development and the foundation to create 40 village banks in Thailand. They targeted microenterprise development through small entrepreneurs, vendors, village market women, who in some developing countries comprise up to 50 percent of the employment. Beryl Rupp, a Rotary Club official in Phoenix, says the bank members buy necessities with their profits or savings: a chair to sit on, pots to cook in, blankets, better food. The women, when asked, speak of the greatest benefit in terms of what Hatch calls "empowerment perceptions." Their vehicle for improvement is the village bank, each comprised of 30 to 50 women who, through loans starting at $50, can earn enough to provide savings and create capital. Hatch says the loans give them freedom to start their own investment projects in or near home. Each woman signs her name or provides a thumbprint as collateral, agreeing to repay one-sixteenth of the loan weekly, plus interest of 1 percent to 3 percent, in line with local banks. "Fifty percent or more are illiterate, and I would say 90 percent of them don't have any idea of what they're getting into when we start out," says Hatch. The savings serve as incentive for subsequent loans by increasing the credit line each time, Hatch said. The foundation has major proposals pending with the Agency for International Development, the Ford Foundation, Citibank and the Chase Manhattan Bank, among others. Hatch says he believes village banking has a role to play in reducing poverty along the Mexican border and in slowing down migration to this country. 