But after years of boasting that their methods were models in policing, both departments are facing pressure to revolutionize their tactics to better fit this first-of-its-kind metropolis.; We are a multiracial, multicultural city more than any other, said Ramona Ripston, head of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Militarizing police is a definite trend in the past 10 years, and part of it is because of the Los Angeles models. ; But some observers say that, for a variety of political and social reasons, the possibility for substantive change on L.A. law's front lines is scant.; Low level of interest; There isn't the level of interest among voting people, people with power, people with influence, ACLU spokesman Joe Hicks said. And fail they have. ; Block pointed to social ills including high drop-out and illiteracy rates, young people who are raising themselves, and a county jail system that is perhaps the major houser of mentally ill people in our society in this nation. ; Countywide, homicides soared to 1,964 last year, compared with 1,463 five years earlier.; There are 950 known street gangs with more than 99,300 members in the county, according to the sheriff's department.; Agreeing that law enforcement is not the answer to all of society's failures, critics say Block is missing the point.; Police brutality (or) racism is not a social problem, it's a law enforcement lack of leadership, the Hoover Institution's McNamara said. The rhetoric of the Los Angeles police establishment through the years seems to have escalated conflict, not lowered it. ; The FBI, Amnesty International and the county grand jury are investigating allegations about both departments.; But some critics are skeptical that the police culture here will change significantly.; 'Window dressing' predicted; On the city side, they worry that the Christopher Commission recommendations will be diluted by the time the city council and voters are finished with them. Besides a new police chief, the ACLU's Hicks predicted only some window dressing and some moderate changes made to training. ; On the county side, critics say Block's position as an elected official insulates him from the kind of independent review the city was able to order for the police department.; And although he can be voted out, they say, the voters include great numbers of people in cities that his department doesn't patrol.; John Burton, an attorney specializing in police misconduct cases, offers a grim view on the potential for change: I think it's going to get worse, because of the general decay in social conditions and unemployment. 