Rising welfare spending has been a significant factor in the average increase in net state borrowing of 3 percentage points of GDP across the OECD between 1989 and 1992. In the longer term, there are fears that the cost of the welfare state could become insupportable as populations age over the next 50 years. Reform of national welfare systems to bring costs under control is now on the political agenda throughout the OECD, as countries struggle to rein in government spending. The biggest element in this growth has been the cost of pensions, healthcare, unemployment benefits and family support. The largest single budget item in most welfare states is the cost of publicly provided pensions. The ageing of the population has also contributed to rising costs, though not as much as for pensions. Rising unemployment has added to the cost of the welfare state in both unemployment benefits and general family support for low-income families. Most OECD countries have recognised the need to curb growth in these main areas of welfare spending during the 1980s, and have introduced policies to tackle the underlying causes. Moves are afoot in countries such as Germany and Italy to raise the pension age. Although there are considerable differences between national health systems, healthcare reforms in countries such as the UK and the Netherlands are increasingly converging on models that use competition and price incentives to control costs. Some countries have succeeded in stabilising their welfare costs by measures such as these. But what most concerns those responsible for public finances is the strength of underlying pressures on welfare spending that will push costs upwards in the future. Increases in life expectancy have already increased the number of elderly people collecting pensions. The strain that this will put on the welfare state can best be seen by relating it to expected trends in the number of people of working age. Some countries face much greater pressures from the ageing of their populations than others. Germany and Japan, for example, will both have age dependency ratios of 34 per cent by 2020 - one person over the age of 65 for every three people between 15 and 64. The most immediate impact of these demographic changes will be on pensions, where costs will in any case rise as pension schemes continue to mature. Real economic growth rates of up to 1.5 per cent a year would be needed to pay for pensions alone - and that on the assumption that the pensions do not increase in real terms. However, raising pensions by more than prices would either require much higher growth rates or higher taxes for those in work to pay the bill. In some countries, the increase has been relatively moderate - 20 per cent or less in countries such as France, Japan and Switzerland. Lone-parent families now typically constitute 10-15 per cent of of all families with children in OECD countries. Added to concerns over demography and social change are fears over the increase in unemployment levels across the OECD. Continuing rises in the base level of unemployment would further undermine countries' ability to pay for their welfare states. Germany, the UK, France, Italy and the US are among countries that have already raised tax and social security contribution levels. Where the cost of welfare is jointly funded by employers - as in Germany - higher contributions are also increasingly resisted by business, which fears the consequences for international competitiveness of higher costs. In a global economy, no country can long afford to burden business with higher welfare costs than its neighbours. An alternative response to cost pressures would be further increases in borrowing to fund the welfare state. Without either tax rises or cuts in welfare budgets, current welfare spending plans could increase debt ratios on average by 90 percentage points over the next 40 years, according to one OECD study. The OECD's immediate priorities for reform include charges for the use of some welfare services and greater competition to increase the efficiency of those services. Tackling these longer-term pressures will require more than tinkering with charges and efficiency drives in welfare services. And the demands put on the welfare state might be eased by encouraging more private provision of pensions and healthcare. 