Moreover, Mr. Sununu's ouster is unlikely to result in any major changes in Mr. Bush's economic policies, which have attracted much criticism recently. The nature of the final year of Mr. Bush's first term now hinges on whom he picks to be his White House chief of staff and whom he chooses to run his re-election campaign. Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down. Moreover, top Republicans on Capitol Hill, as well as some administration officials, say Mr. Skinner has a penchant for abrasiveness, although he is hardly Mr. Sununu's equal on that score. Bill Frenzel, a close friend of the president's, is also mentioned as a possible choice. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas called the president aboard Air Force One yesterday and urged that Carla Hills, the U.S. trade representative, be given the job. By the time he and the president agreed on his departure, Mr. Sununu, who made self-confidence a badge of honor, was despondent. It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen. But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls. One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year; he argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat. Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues. Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues. As a result, Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of his party. Mr. Sununu began to face rough political waters a year ago when, as one of Mr. Bush's chief negotiators on the deficit reduction agreement, he bruised congressional egos from both political parties with heavy-handed lobbying and what many saw as disregard for their stature as elected representatives. The Sununu saga ended with a handwritten note to Mr. Bush on a trip that Mr. Sununu knew would seal his fate. Mr. Sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington. The president had already been searching for a way to ease Mr. Sununu out of his post gracefully. At the same time, Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies. And the suggestion of dispatching him back home to New Hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when Mr. Bush decided to have his campaign there run by former GOP Gov. The Greggs, in fact, scheduled a meeting for this evening in the governor's mansion to plan strategy for the New Hampshire primary, where Mr. Bush faces a challenge from conservative columnist Pat Buchanan. The announcement of Mr. Sununu's departure came in Meridian, Miss., where the White House distributed photocopies of the handwritten resignation letter. In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office. Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates. Shortly before boarding the presidential aircraft in Mississippi, Mr. Sununu told reporters that he knew the rules of the game when he came to town. In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss. 