Nearly one-quarter of 650 officers responding to a commission survey agreed that racial bias on the part of officers toward minority citizens currently exists and contributes to a negative interaction between police and community, and in some cases may lead to the use of excessive force, the report said. A scant eight hours is devoted to cultural awareness training at the Los Angeles Police Academy, and many officers who train new recruits in the field openly perpetuate the siege mentality that alienates patrol officers from the community, the commission concluded. But the commission called for a shift away from the force's paramilitaristic, us-against-them style, and said the department must embrace the community-based policing style that encourages officers to spend less time in their cars and more time interacting with citizens in the communities they serve. This report will be a must-read for police chiefs around the country, said Hubert Williams, executive director of the Police Foundation, a Washington, D.C., law enforcement research group. Mr. Williams likened the report to the Knapp Commission, a 1970s blue-ribbon study that exposed widespread corruption in the New York Police Department and led to significant improvements there. As troubling as some of our findings are... they are not unique to Los Angeles, said John A. Arguelles, vice chairman of the 10-member Independent Commission on the Los Angeles Police Department. Among the commission's recommendations are: -- A commission appointed by the mayor that oversees the department should be reorganized and strengthened, and made responsible for handling citizen complaints. However, Michael Yamaki, one of the city's five police commissioners, believes that given the systemic problems in the department that have come to light, citizens now will be more willing to fund police issues. Even before the commission's report was issued, community groups that monitor the LAPD noted a decline in brutality complaints. The harsh tone of the report was welcome vindication for community leaders who have claimed that police brutality is widespread. More than 80% of the black, Hispanic and Asian police officers in the force are in the entry-level ranks, the report said. But the most surprising part of the report was its recommendation that Chief Gates resign, after a transitional period in which he would begin implementing the commission's proposals. As for the recommendation that he step down, the embattled chief said he will wait until the voters sanction a move to limit a police chief's tenure. Mayor Bradley said he hopes that Chief Gates's will follow the commission's recommendations to commence the transition to a new chief of police. 