Thousands more acres of brush and timber went up in smoke Saturday in seven states in the West, threatening homes in some places, and firefighters contended with wind and high temperatures. The Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho, which coordinates federal firefighting efforts, listed 7,000 to 7,500 people on the fire lines, along with 42 air tankers, 14 guide planes and 10 helicopters, spokesman Arnold Hartigan said Saturday. The fact that there are more acres burned this year, but fewer fires, "means this year's fires are in very rugged, inaccessible terrain, which makes them hard to fight," said Hartigan. Elsewhere in Utah, the Uinta Canyon fire had burned 3,850 acres 20 miles north of Roosevelt in the Ashley National Forest. Forest Service spokeswoman Cece Stewart said three helicopters scattered incendiary bombs made of chemically treated plastic balls on an unburned 200-acre area between fire lines and the main fire in an effort to stop the fire's advance. High wind also was expected in northern California, where a 2,500-acre fire near Janesville on the eastern slopes of the Sierra Nevada destroyed two mobile homes. Relentless winds first pushed the fire north, then south, prompting Sheriff Ron Jarrel to order the evacuation of a sparsely populated area about a mile south of the fire line, Reider said. Spokesman Larry Lathrop said a helicopter battling the fire crashed Saturday about four miles southeast of Janesville. Firefighters gained the upper hand on a trio of forest fires in Colorado's drought-stricken mountains Saturday, but a new blaze of an estimated 3,000 acres in grass and timber on the eastern plains had crews scrambling to protect a subdivision in Elbert County. In the Bridger-Teton National Forest in western Wyoming, a fire had grown to 3,420 acres, burning an additional 1,000 acres in 24 hours, according to forest officials. Arizona's largest fire until Saturday, in the Peloncillo Mountains south of Duncan, along the Arizona-New Mexico border, had charred 8,000 acres but was 80 percent contained. Firefighters spent an eighth day Saturday battling the lightning-caused, 8,139-acre Divide fire 50 miles northeast of Silver City in the Gila National Forest in southwestern New Mexico, U.S. Forest Service officials said. 