Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. was a con man who relied on lies and political influence -- juice -- to fool and bully regulators in charge of his ill-fated Irvine-based thrift, California Savings and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford told an Assembly committee Wednesday. George Deukmejian's top campaign fund-raiser, Los Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian, defend his actions as one of Keating's attorneys, hired to represent the Arizona businessman's interests before state regulators. Samuelian said he recommended the appointment of two successive state corporations commissioners -- both of whom subsequently approved the sales of high-risk junk bonds by Lincoln's parent corporation. Samuelian, Deukmejian's campaign finance chairman since 1982, also said that he represented Keating at several meetings with state regulators. After the hearing, Samuelian told reporters that he helped set up meetings between Keating and the regulators' boss, Business, Transportation and Housing Secretary John K. Geoghegan. But it was Crawford's blunt remarks about Keating's tactics and demeanor that provided the most provocative testimony Wednesday before the Assembly's Finance and Insurance Committee. When Keating first took over Lincoln in February, 1984, he told state regulators one thing but all along planned to do another, Crawford said. Crawford said that when he took over the department in 1985, he found that his predecessor had allowed Keating to keep the original records of Lincoln Savings in Phoenix, leaving only incomplete copies of documents for California regulators in the Lincoln offices in Irvine. Crawford said he ordered Lincoln's files to be brought back to California after he discovered Keating had contributed $50,000 to Arizona's attorney general in an uncontested race -- a move that persuaded him that any action by California regulators would be resisted by their counterparts in Arizona. That was 54 places to hide the smoking gun, said Crawford, who added: We were never on top of the problems of Lincoln Savings.... Referring to a Home Loan Bank Board memo that said Keating had attempted to have him fired, Crawford said he did not know of any such effort but added that he, like federal regulators, felt beat up by the Arizona businessman. 'Proof of the Pudding' But he insisted that no one from Deukmejian's office tried to influence his handling of Lincoln. The committee's chairman, Assemblyman Patrick Johnston (D-Stockton), expressed concern about allegations that Keating and his associates used political connections to influence state regulators. Deukmejian fund-raiser Samuelian, however, said he has never contacted the governor on behalf of any client. Samuelian outlined 1986 and 1987 contributions to Deukmejian's campaign committee from Keating's companies, relatives and business associates totaling $150,000, plus an additional $100,000 to Republican fund-raising efforts in California that Samuelian collected. After the hearing, Samuelian said he helped set up Keating's meetings in February and March, 1988, with Transportation and Housing Secretary Geoghegan, a Deukmejian appointee whose agency oversees the state's savings and loan and corporations regulators. Wording Deleted Also during the hearing, state savings and loan examiner Richard Newsom said the state attorney general's office deleted wording in a December, 1988, cease-and-desist order against American Continental that could have warned investors not to buy the company's high-risk junk bonds. Wall, who previously headed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is under fire for not acting on a recommendation by regional regulators to seize Lincoln in 1987. 