Improved cruise ship safety is on the most-wanted list at the board, he said.; Sadly, it is true that major steps in ship safety have followed great disasters: The General Slocum fire, which killed 950 people in 1904, brought tighter requirements for life-saving gear and fire-fighting equipment; the Titanic, with its loss of 1,500 lives in 1912, brought rules on life-saving devices and certifying of lifeboat personnel; in the '30s, the Morro Castle fire, which cost 124 lives, and the Mohawk sinking, with a loss of 45 lives, brought regulations on the structure, equipment and materials of passenger ships.; The Andrea Doria crash in 1956, in which 47 died, inspired requirements that ship hulls be divided by steel bulkheads.; When the Yarmouth Castle burned and sank in 1965, taking 90 lives, Congress banned wood construction on passenger ships. If equipment is not in order, the Coast Guard can prevent the boarding of passengers until things are up to snuff.; The application of the rules is not universal: the older the vessel, the less stringent the requirements, because Safety of Life at Sea rules have grandfather clauses.; Age: no automatic alarm; A vessel need comply only with the rules in effect at the time the keel was laid or it last underwent major reconstruction. Joel D. Sipes, former chief of the Coast Guard's Office of Marine Safety, testified in Congress this spring: We have been concerned for a number of years that the grandfather clauses create an incentive to bring more and more older ships back into service. The average age of ships today is 16 years, which is already fairly elderly in shipping terms and old ships need more maintenance and repair, he said in a statement last month.; In May, the safety committee of the International Maritime Organization met in London to begin amending the Safety of Life at Sea rules.; The proposed amendments, which are supported by the majority of the member countries, require that new ships' atriums have smoke-detection systems, smoke-exhaust systems, two means of escape and an automatic sprinkler system.; The committee also discussed a phase-out of the grandfather rules. Roger Kohn, information officer for the maritime organization in London, said the loss of the Oceanos tended to confirm a general feeling that something must be done. ; John T. Estes, president of the International Council of Cruise Lines, which represents the owners of most of the ocean-going cruise vessels, said that his organization favored all the proposed new rules, but not the proposed effective dates.; When the safety committee met in May, it was considering phasing-in dates for the regulations beyond 1994 for new ships, possibly as late as 2010 for removal from service of vessels that cannot meet the new rules.; Estes said that accounting for the lead time required for ship design, his organization favors 1996 for enforcing the rules on new construction and major reconstruction.; The 15 major cruise ships that call in New York have passed inspections without difficulty, according to Comdr. John J. O'Brien Jr., the Coast Guard's deputy chief.; If you fly to another country to save a few dollars, he said, let the buyer beware; you don't know if it's been inspected in the last year, or at all. ; On the other hand, when U.S.-registered vessels are inspected, O'Brien said, they are required to meet full Coast Guard standards, including expensive Type I life vests designed to be very easy to use. 