In the view of Yugoslav diplomats, the normalization of relations between Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will certainly be a strenuous and long-term project. Although the establishment of communications between Ljubljana and Belgrade would be very important for the situation in the former Yugoslavia in general, the chances that this could happen soon are minimal. A signal that relations between Yugoslavia and Slovenia might be reconsidered came this time from the Slovene capital. It is assumed in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Slovene businessmen might even be checking the atmosphere for possible political contacts, but there have been no official statements about it. <H5> Commercial contacts </H5> The signals from the Slovene side are being received in Yugoslavia with reservations. Yugoslav sources claim that Slovenia is becoming increasingly isolated because of its extreme policy toward Yugoslavia, so that this might be one of the reasons why it has decided to soften its attitudes toward Yugoslavia. After reporters remarked that this relatively negative attitude might negate the unofficial signal from Ljubljana, a Yugoslav diplomat said: We do not think that there is only one opinion in Slovenia about Yugoslavia. Slovenia is the former Yugoslav republic that made the greatest effort to harm the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In the view of Slovene political commentators, the softening of the Slovene attitude toward the FRY is a part of the diplomatic tactics the aim of which is to adapt Slovene policy to the policy of the European Union, with which Slovenia is awaiting negotiations about associate membership. Belgrade diplomats agree with this assessment and claim that the first announcement of possible contacts between Yugoslavia and Slovenia were made by arrangement with Germany and Austria. In the focus of Serbian attention now are relations with Croatia, and as far as Slovenia is concerned, the official proposal for the normalization of relations has to be specified first. It is further necessary that the anti-Serbian campaign that Slovenia has been spreading all over the world is ended and that it acknowledges that those who remained in Yugoslavia have the right to self- determination. There are many situations that prove that Slovenia has a hostile attitude toward Yugoslavia. We are, of course, interested in normal relations between Slovenia and Yugoslavia, but some prerequisites have to be fulfilled, Jovanovic concluded his statement. 