In a voluminous report issued yesterday, the National Transportation Safety Board said these and other incidents carry a clear warning: Many foreign-flag cruise ships that sail from U.S. ports have serious safety problems and the potential for a catastrophic accident is significant. If these companies are going to have their fleets based in the U.S. and carry primarily U.S. passengers, then they should meet U.S. standards, says one safety board staffer. Diana Orban, a spokeswoman for Cruise Lines International Association, a New York-based group that has 35 members, notes that only two people have been killed on cruise ships serving U.S. ports since 1970. (Both were passengers on the Scandinavian Sun, another Bahamian ship, when it caught fire in August 1984.) But as the booming cruise-ship industry plans ever larger ships -- some on the drawing boards could carry well over 3,000 people -- the safety board's concerns are rising. Ships operating from U.S. ports carried about five million passengers last year, and in anticipation of continued growth, 20 cruise ships are under construction around the world. But the overriding concern, the board said, is that foreign cruise ships are subject to rules that are less stringent and vigorously enforced than those imposed on U.S. flag vessels. Many Americans hoping for a bon voyage wrongly assume that ships sailing from U.S. ports operate under the supervision of the U.S. government. But almost all cruise ships operating out of the continental U.S. sail under foreign flags, and the U.S. Coast Guard conducts only cursory inspections of foreign vessels. At least 80 foreign cruise ships operate out of U.S. ports, mostly from southern Florida. The board said there have been at least nine fires on foreign-flag cruise ships in recent years, several of them serious. In July 1986, an acetylene-fueled fire erupted in an engine store room on the Panamanian cruise ship Emerald Seas as it was approaching the Berry Islands in the Bahamas. To reduce the chances of a cruise-ship disaster, the safety board is pushing for legislation that would give the U.S. Coast Guard the authority to enforce U.S. safety rules on foreign-flag vessels. In particular, the board believes the ships should be required to have sophisticated, integrated fire-control systems, including remote fire door releases and fire alarms. The board also wants cruise-ship companies to install floor-level emergency lights like those on airplanes and to hire a full-time marine firefighter on all vessels with more than 500 passengers. Despite its strongly worded report, the NTSB knows it could be years before the safety standards for cruise ships are upgraded. 