To economists, term limits sound like minimum wages, rent controls and similar interferences with free markets. The real surprise is that some strong supporters of free markets, such as The Wall Street Journal, have been the biggest advocates of term limits. Another argument is that a citizen Congress with its continuing flow of fresh faces into Washington would result in better government than that provided by representatives with lengthy tenure. But if the electoral control process is working, so that officeholders conform with the interests of the majority of their constituents, then the electorate rewards its representatives with re-election. If the public voted against satisfactory performers just to install a new face, then officeholders would have less incentive to behave and the system would work badly. (It is interesting to note, however, that Hamilton was not discussing term limits on the legislature, and was actually arguing against the term limits on the chief executive that are contained now in the 22nd Amendment.) The only respectable argument in favor of term limits that I know of refers to the legislature and involves the interaction with the seniority system. The voters would be better off if they could reach a binding agreement that precluded the re-election of incumbents, that is, if term limits were instituted. As an example, the voters of Washington state recently rejected a proposal that would have limited the seniority of their congressional representatives relative to those of other states. Yet the same voters likely would have approved a proposal that limited the terms of all Congressional representatives, not just those from Washington. Changes in the seniority system may therefore be a superior alternative to term limits. If a representative's power to favor his or her district did not vary with seniority, then voters would not have an excessive incentive to re-elect incumbents. Although the chances of success seem small, one way to proceed would be to call the proposal the Civil Rights Amendment -- recent experience shows that calling something a Civil Rights Act helps to get it passed. Greater experience may justify positions of more authority, and, the rewards from seniority give Congress an efficient method to motivate good behavior from junior members. The various complexities about legislative term limits and their interaction with seniority do not arise for executive term limits. Of course, since the passage of the 22nd Amendment in 1951, there is a two-term limit on the presidency, and 29 of the 50 states have some kind of term limit on the governor. To some extent, the current pressures for legislative term limits reflect the reverse desire to shift power away from Congress. Executive term limits are therefore a bad idea, but one should not expect vastly better performance at the state or national level from the elimination of these restrictions. 