Between the invasion of Kuwait last August and the end of the Gulf war, many brave souls inside and outside the U.S. government worried about clever stratagems that Saddam Hussein might employ to defeat the U.S. Not without destroying the U.N., and thus destroying any chance of success for his Middle East peace diplomacy; not without inscribing his Gulf war on the same tablet as Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations and Lyndon Johnson's war in Vietnam. He was appealing, it seems, to Washington's interest in some balance among Iran, Iraq and Syria; to Ankara's concern about turmoil on Turkey's southern border; and perhaps to friendly German arms merchants who would again want to do business with him. Even though the Bush administration's response to the new challenge has been mysteriously slow and inept, Saddam Hussein's most recent depredations have killed his last chance to plead for magnanimity in victory, or to posture himself as the lesser evil, who would, at least, give us the blessings of stability in Iraq. Now the U.N. is committed to implementing the destruction of all of Iraq's chemical and biological weapons, longer-range ballistic missiles, and nuclear materials and components. It is most implausible that Saddam Hussein could survive as Iraq's dictator and comply with these terms. We should expect unexplained disappearances of U.N. arms control inspectors, crashes (blamed on Kurds) of U.N. helicopters looking for hidden chemical weapons, and the killing of thousands of Iraqi soldiers, scientists and technicians who might reveal the location of prohibited weaponry. Saddam Hussein may not realize it, but as he begins to obstruct, violate and sabotage the U.N. implementation of the ceasefire agreement, he must take on not just some bureaucrats at U.N. headquarters and the U.N. flag. Since Mr. Bush has just succeeded in turning the U.N. into a useful instrument for enhancing world order, he can't let Saddam Hussein steal his success. Moreover, the president will depend on the U.N. to put an end to the Arab-Israeli conflict, a key policy goal he announced after Desert Storm. If international security guarantees were to fail in this instance, the deal that could be offered to Israel would no longer be territory for peace, but territory for a worthless U.N. document. Five weeks ago, in his triumphant speech to Congress, President Bush said that our commitment to peace in the Middle East does not end with the liberation of Kuwait. The U.S. is committed to support the U.N., and the U.N. is now committed to inserting itself deeply into the internal affairs of Iraq. 