But even continued military success carries political and diplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The allied rejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiative from an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But it has offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, not just the liberation of Kuwait. Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend became more open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein's military machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goal likely to be supported by most Americans. Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV's This Week With David Brinkley that the series of United Nations resolutions condemning Iraq's invasion of Kuwait imply that the restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be a heck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not in power in Iraq. Iraq still has the potential to cause significant problems by using forces and weapons that don't yet seem fully engaged. Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troops haven't yet fully engaged Iraq's vaunted Republican Guard, which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait border and is considered the most potent element in the Iraqi defense. American war planners have long assumed that the early stage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and their strength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi front line, would be the easiest part. There are likely to be additional American prisoners of war taken, and there are signs that President Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. and Kuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers of civilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held by Iraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields or for use later in bargaining once the war is over. President Bush's political argument for going to a ground war has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports of wanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush's deputy national security adviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Network that Iraqi troops have set fire to large sections of Kuwait City. Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a military conclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports of Iraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S. officials now say, was that they all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bush administration considers the sanctions essential to keeping Saddam Hussein under control should he survive the war. He argued setting an explicit deadline for Saddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give the U.S. military a clear green light to proceed. Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S. ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin as previously planned Saturday night. U.S. commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the first hours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000. The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly, leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plunged his country first into a fruitless eight-year-long war against Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S. and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving much of his country's military establishment and modern infrastructure in ruins. Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and an international arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraq pays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or its armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq, perhaps from the army's professional ranks, will step forward and push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can begin recovering from the disaster. Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein's support within the Iraqi military. We looked to the United States, we expected you to have the moral edge, says Nasser Tahboub, a Jerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and a doctorate in political science from Duke University. 