NEGOTIATIONS FOR a new contract between Botswana, the world's most important diamond producer in value terms, and De Beers, the South African group which controls 80 per cent of the market for rough (uncut) diamonds, are taking much longer than expected. Some Botswana politicians want to change De Beers' exclusive sales contract so that part of their country's output can be sold independently of the South African group's international cartel. In presentations to Botswana's Minerals Policy Committee and members of parliament, IDC has been arguing that, not only was it commercially essential for Botswana to understand the real value of its diamond output, but that the country had a political responsibility to do so. 'Data accumulated independently of the CSO would put Botswana in a position to have more input into the arrangements for the sale of its diamonds,' IDC pointed out. If Botswana were to sell 10 per cent of its rough diamond production, worth about USDollars 100m, independently of the CSO - which sells about Dollars 4bn-worth a year from all over the world - it would represent no threat to market stability, IDC said. 'It is not unreasonable to reflect whether the fact that Botswana is the only major producer currently selling 100 per cent of its production to the CSO has any bearing on the substantial profits made by the CSO on the sale of its diamonds.' It suggests IDC's arguments are flawed because they are based on an assumption that Botswana needs more market information. Mr Geoffrey Leggett at IDC suggests, however, the valuer only ensures that the assortment of diamonds from Botswana conforms to an agreed sample and that the agreed contract price is paid. The Botswana government recently set up a diamond cutting centre with De Beers' technical help, and this, too, should further the country's understanding of the market. There has been a special relationship between the CSO and Botswana since 1987 when the country sold its diamond stockpile to De Beers in exchange for an estimated USDollars 250m and a 5.27 per cent shareholding in the South African group. De Beers, which itself mines about 40 per cent of the world's annual rough diamond output, markets stones from Angola, Australia, Namibia, Tanzania, Zaire and the Soviet Union, as well as South Africa and Botswana. In addition, Botswana this year faces its first budgetary deficit since 1982 and, according to De Beers' calculations, one of its diamond mines - Orapa -needs investment of USDollars 600m. The CSO has also notched up some recent coups: bringing a big part of the Soviet Union's and Angola's rough diamond output back into the cartel - or what it calls its 'single channel marketing' - arrangements. However, the CSO is also currently involved in contract negotiations with Argyle Diamonds, the western Australian company which is the biggest individual diamond producer in volume (but only sixth in value) terms. 