WHEN Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's newly-appointed governor, arrives in the colony in July he will find that, five years away from its reversion to Chinese sovereignty, Hong Kong is thriving. Just a year ago the colony was in the doldrums: a bitter fight with China over colonial government's plans to build a huge airport was under way; the Gulf War had depressed tourist arrivals; and the colony's first partially democratic elections were looming. These singular rises in asset prices - aided, to be sure, by a lax monetary policy - underline the brimming optimism of Hong Kong. To judge by the stock market, property prices, and bilateral trade with and investment in China, Hong Kong appears to have come to terms with its future ruler. During that time Hong Kong has reverted to a role it occupied before the Second World War: that of entrepot for China's trade with the outside world. Last year, Hong Kong exported goods with a value of HKDollars 765.8bn; of these HKDollars 534.8 were 're-exports', more than 80 per cent of which related to trade with China. This change in Hong Kong's economy could not have happened without the historic change of course China embarked upon in 1979. Yet, in spite of the extraordinary economic integration that has taken place over the past decade, China, at a political level, divides Hong Kong society and politics. Come June 30, 1997, Hong Kong will be welcomed back into the bosom of a country which, at best, nurtures ancient attitudes to civil and political rights, and which for millennia has been ruled by an iron fist. Although the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong's future which Britain and China signed in September 1984 and the Basic Law which the Chinese parliament passed in April 1991 provide for the maintenance of Hong Kong's way of life and a 'high degree of autonomy', the colony's citizens have continued to vote with their feet, seeking the protection of foreign lands and the passports they offer. There have been cases of Hong Kong Chinese returning to the colony but this is hardly surprising given that their most popular destinations - Canada, the US and Australia - have all been suffering economic downturns. This group also seeks a non-confrontational policy towards China, believing that it is better to work with the future ruler than to antagonise it. Beijing has already begun to agitate on electoral reform; Mr Patten can expect more. Yet Mr Patten's main task is to preside over the peaceful transfer of Hong Kong to China in 1997. A man neither popular with his staff nor with the people of Hong Kong, Mr Zhou has proved difficult for the British to deal with since his appointment after the Tiananmen massacre of June 1989. He will also have to deal with Mr Lu Ping, head of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, and China's most senior official in charge of day-to-day Hong Kong Affairs. 