It's the most stunning example of Las Vegas's concerted effort to transform itself into a world-famous vacation resort for families as well as gamblers. The Excalibur, with a castlelike hotel, jousting tournaments and other Arthurian attractions, will be able to handle up to 30,000 visitors a day when it opens in 1990. If MGM Grand Inc. proceeds with its plan for an amusement park -- a $700 million movieland resort with a working studio, casino and 5,000-room hotel that would become Las Vegas's biggest -- the investment in the three properties will total some $1.6 billion. Still other projects that have been announced but not yet started could put expenditures above $3 billion over the next few years. Stephen A. Wynn, who owns 29.4% of Golden Nugget's shares, says the Mirage and other projects will help Las Vegas attract a whole new generation of visitors. The projects already under construction will increase Las Vegas's supply of hotel rooms by 11,795, or nearly 20%, to 75,500. By a rule of thumb of 1.5 new jobs for each new hotel room, Clark County will have nearly 18,000 new jobs. Traffic is certainly a concern, as is pollution, water and an adequate labor market, says Frank Sain, executive director of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Bureau. City fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth, such as the expansion of McCarran International Airport to accommodate the 44% of Las Vegas tourists who fly here. Las Vegas promises, or threatens, to become a giant carnival, with rooms to be had for $45 a day or less, for visitors uninspired solely by gambling. Caesars World Inc. plans to defend its august reputation by sinking $190 million into its opulent Caesars Palace, next door to the new Mirage, and adding a $100 million shopping area reminiscent of Rodeo Drive. The Flamingo Hilton, Imperial Palace, Frontier and others are pouring millions of dollars into facelifts, new room towers and casino floor space just to keep up. Golden Nugget, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s first casino client, has borrowed on more than $600 million worth of mortgage notes, mostly sold to private investors by Drexel, to build the Mirage. Other casino owners, Circus Circus among them, are financing their expansion with their own cash and revolving credit lines from local lenders such as First Interstate Bank of Nevada. Casino revenues and hotel occupancy rates are high. Last year, the tourists left $3 billion with the area's casinos, nearly 10% more than in 1987. Two generations ago, Dad came to Las Vegas by himself for a little diversion, says Van Heffner, executive vice president of the Nevada Hotel and Motel Association. Casinos today offer bowling alleys, water parks, golf courses, tennis courts, lush swimming pools and other diversions, and more such facilities are being designed. Despite the new emphasis on the family trade, however, tourists in search of naughtier fun than gambling seem certain to find it, with Las Vegas call girls remaining on the scene. Atlantic City casino owner Donald Trump is scouting the Las Vegas market with an eye toward building an appropriately spectacular place. Even before the huge new projects began, the Strip's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors. Many blue-collar customers of downtown's no-frills gambling spots have been lured to the Strip or to Laughlin, Nev., a Colorado River town catering to snowbirds and the recreational-vehicle crowd. Hotel expansion and an influx of more-discriminating tourists have hurt motels. There's probably going to be some pressure on occupancy and room rates over the next year, but after that you should see the market return to 80%-plus occupancy and regular rates, says Paul Rubeli, casino executive at Ramada Inc., which runs the Tropicana. Competitors and analysts say that among large existing properties Bally Manufacturing Corp.'s Bally Grand hotel-casino probably will be hardest hit among major properties. Its parking lot is inconvenient, the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places, and customers still call it the Grand, rather than the Bally Grand. Any hotel-casino without a strong identity will get whacked by the new competition, says Glenn Schaeffer, senior vice president of Circus Circus. Circus Circus's flagship casino has become the envy of competitors for its ability to vacuum cash from the pockets of vacationing families. Caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad, who are also being aggressively courted by the Mirage, the Las Vegas Hilton and others. Other, smaller concerns are also pursuing market niches -- Hawaiian tourists, for example, or the local trade. There's still room for boutique properties, says James Barrett, president of MarCor Resorts Inc. Off the Strip, MarCor is building the Rio, a hotel-casino with a Brazilian theme and only 430 rooms -- all of them suites. The days when when the thrust of casinos was all high rollers, with no windows and clocks and lots of red and black decor, are gone, Mr. Sain of the visitors' bureau says. 