Clint Bolick, vice president of the Institute for Justice in Washington and a close friend of Judge Thomas, says that the weekend hearings will deepen his sympathy for victims and will reconfirm his very strong belief in individual rights. But those who had qualms about Judge Thomas before Anita Hill's accusations against him exploded in public worry that the hearings will push him in a different direction. Others are concerned that the Supreme Court as an institution will be diminished for having Judge Thomas on the bench, even though Prof. Hill's allegations of misconduct were not proven. (Judge Ginsburg withdrew as a nominee to the court in 1987 after it was revealed he had smoked marijuana as a law professor; Justice Fortas resigned in 1969 in a financial scandal.) Legal experts all along the political spectrum believe the rocky confirmation hearings will influence the judge's views on a host of issues soon to be before the court. The charges by Prof. Hill could hardly fail to influence his thinking on a sexual harassment case that will be argued this fall. His lingering anger toward women's groups could also affect his thoughts on abortion -- the most controversial issue before the court, and an issue on which Judge Thomas has said he has no current view. Kennedy fears, could easily enough affect his view of cases involving the separation of powers between the three branches of government. On the other hand, liberals hope that his experience at the hands of the Senate will have sensitized Judge Thomas to the rights of people charged with wrongdoing. As Judge Thomas helps decide controversial cases over the years, the specter of Anita Hill's lurid allegations will almost certainly be evident. The bitter battle over Judge Thomas's treatment of Anita Hill has pushed a relatively obscure case called Franklin vs. Gwinnett County (Ga.) into the limelight because it involves sexual harassment. The issue that dominated the first round of Judge Thomas's hearings last month, was abortion-the most contentious issue before the court. Democrats questioned Judge Thomas's credibility when he insisted not only that he didn't have an opinion on Roe vs. Wade, the abortion-rights landmark Supreme Court decision, but also that he had never discussed the 1973 case. Women's rights organizations fear that Judge Thomas's animosity toward liberal interest groups will influence his decisions on reproductive rights. Judge Thomas angrily told the committee that interest groups came up with this story {Hill's charges} and used this process to destroy me. Claudia Withers of the Women's Legal Defense Fund says that such expressions of hostility by Judge Thomas give us the concern that he wouldn't look favorably on claims by interest groups that advocate abortion rights before the Supreme Court and that also opposed his nomination. Judge Thomas wouldn't be able to vote on the case unless the Supreme Court asks the parties to reargue it once he is on the bench. But a number of cases presenting an opportunity to overrule the Roe vs. Wade decision are working their way through the lower courts, and the justices are expected to hear at least one of them next term. In the intervening months, abortion-rights advocates worry that Judge Thomas's bitterness toward them will harden and push him into an anti-Roe majority on the court. One legal expert who knows Judge Thomas well is convinced that the new justice will be very negative about any issue enhancing congressional powers. Judge Thomas has for a number of years allied himself with conservative legal thinkers, led by Justice Scalia, who trace many of the government's ills to congressional overreaching. Judge Thomas endorsed the lone dissenter in the case, Justice Scalia, who argued that Congress lacked the authority to set up a special prosecutor's office to investigate alleged wrongdoing by powerful federal officials. Judge Thomas asserted that Justice Rehnquist, who wrote the majority opinion upholding Congress's action, failed not only conservatives but all Americans. In his opening salvo against the Judiciary Committee and other foes, Judge Thomas recounted with disgust the worst parts of his ordeal, describing reporters sneaking into my garage to examine books that I read, reporters and interest groups swarming over divorce papers, looking for dirt. Armstrong Williams, a Thomas friend and former aide, reports that the judge in part blames the media for his troubles. There are no cases involving press freedoms on the court's docket and Judge Thomas has had very limited First Amendment experience, a gap that gave the American Bar Association reservations about the nominee. And, in all probability, reporters will continue their digging into Judge Thomas's past in an effort to get to the bottom of Anita Hill's charges. Once confirmed, a Supreme Court justice probably can't be impeached for past infractions, such as lying to Congress or committing sexual harassment, says Laurence Tribe of Harvard Law School. In the first phase of the hearings in September, Judge Thomas spoke of watching from his appeals court office the bus loads of black prisoners and thinking, There but for the grace of God go I. Judge Thomas will have an opportunity to apply his criminal-law views in the case of Jacobson vs. U.S., which is scheduled to be argued next month. In the end, some critics of Judge Thomas worry that his recent experiences will send him onto the court as an embittered man bent on revenge against his perceived tormentors. But John Danforth, Judge Thomas's most passionate defender in the Senate, says going through the agonies of hell has made Clarence Thomas more sensitive to civil rights, to the necessity of legal protection of the people of this country, than most people who could conceivably be nominated for the Supreme Court. 