A controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent demonstrators they are arresting. Demonstrators have alleged police brutality at least since Freedom Riders launched their sit-down strikes in Alabama almost 30 years ago. This time, however, the outcry -- including the videotapes of police in action -- comes from anti-abortion protesters with Operation Rescue, whose members tend to see themselves as law-and-order conservatives. Suddenly, some pro-choice liberals are as supportive of the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations, while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of police state rhetoric once associated with anti-war radicals. In introducing a measure to limit the police use of force in arresting nonviolent protesters, William Armstrong, Colorado's conservative Republican senator, decried pain-compliance as something we expect to hear about in Nicaragua or Nazi Germany -- but not in the United States of America. 15, with little media attention, President Bush signed legislation withholding certain federal grants from cities whose police use excessive force. Meanwhile, police officers, many of whom are sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause, claim that religious zeal -- and perhaps the use of muscle relaxants -- has given Operation Rescue anti-abortion protesters an unusually high tolerance to pain -- or even a martyr's appetite for it. Caught off guard by an ambush from their conservative allies, police are howling that the new law -- which could deprive Los Angeles alone of more than $50 million a year in federal aid -- will handcuff them. I think it's utter stupidity, Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates said. In reaction to the uproar, the LAPD is quickly phasing out the term pain-compliance, but not the techniques, which have been used in civil rights demonstrations, student demonstrations, Vietnam demonstrations... all through the '60s, all through the '70s, Gates said. While Gates acknowledged that this issue stirs up memories of the controversy about chokeholds -- a restraint the LAPD now uses only in life-threatening situations as a result of fierce public pressure -- he argues that come-along techniques, properly used, are the safest, most effective way to arrest nonviolent demonstrators. On a recent morning, for example, the Los Angeles Police Academy gym echoed with the unmistakable sounds of force being exerted, as pairs of recruits, dressed in dark blue sweats, kicked, jabbed, swung their night sticks, or grappled one another into chokeholds or pain-compliance holds. Pain-compliance techniques fit into the scale above talk but below the use of a Taser gun, tear gas, and the police baton. But while some Operation Rescue demonstrators use a standard civil-disobedience technique and go limp when asked to move, others link arms. Trying to carry away protesters in these cases becomes even more dangerous to them and arresting officers, police say. Nichols is puzzled by those who call pain-compliance excessive force, or compare it to the cattle prods police use in South Africa. Police actually plead with Operation Rescue demonstrators in some cases, he said. But protesters in Los Angeles and elsewhere assert that the nunchakus and more conventional come-along holds produced not only agony while being applied, but lingering pain, broken bones, torn ligaments, and, in some cases, long-lasting nerve damage. As a result, they have filed lawsuits against police in Los Angeles, Sacramento, Atlanta and other cities. Patrick E. McKinley of LAPD's Metro Division has worked at demonstrations by the Revolutionary Communist Party and the Jewish Defense League, and at protests for or against everything from apartheid to animal rights. Pain for many of the demonstrators is a catharsis for past failure to take action against abortion, he said in a sworn statement last August, given as part of a court challenge against pain-compliance devices. Nichols and others have alleged that some demonstrators simply take muscle relaxants to increase their tolerance -- a charge an Operation Rescue spokeswoman called 100% incorrect. In fact, injuries have been mounting ever since police and Operation Rescue protesters squared off at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta. A woman arrested this year in Los Angeles said: By the time they got my arms all the way back the pain was so intense I was just screaming... In demonstrations in those cities and others, including Boston, Atlanta and Denver, protesters alleged that officers continued to apply come-along holds after demonstrators had complied with their commands, administering pain as a form of curbside justice. It wasn't at all like the old anti-war demonstrations where people were calling the police pigs, being belligerent, said Dan Bruno, an accountant for the city of Orange, whose right wrist was broken at a March 25 Los Angeles demonstration. Rather, leaders began an aggressive letter-writing campaign, encouraging those who felt they had been abused and people who saw videotapes of the abuse to file complaints against the officers, and write to their senators, congressmen, the Department of Justice, and the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. For example, feminist lawyer Gloria Allred, never hesitant to criticize official abuses, said she believes police acted with professionalism last March, issuing fair warnings and acting only after demonstrators failed to comply. At demonstrations, throngs of pro-choice demonstrators, some of whom might well have been on the wrong end of night sticks in another era, watched the police twist protesters' arms and chanted: L.A. blue, we're with you. In fact, the emotional volatility of the abortion issue has shaken the way many think in the debate over police uses of force. Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff has skewered liberal civil libertarians for letting their ideology stop them from supporting anti-abortion protesters' fight to restrain what he calls the torture police. At a commission briefing on police brutality charges, organized by Allen in September, Robert McCue, chief of the West Hartford police, defended his officers. An amendment introduced by conservative lawmakers in the House and Senate, and tagged onto a HUD bill later signed by the President, states that no Community Planning and Development grants may be paid to any municipality that fails to adopt and enforce a policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within the jurisdiction of said municipality against any individuals engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations. The Justice Department already investigates charges of police abuse, Gates pointed out. But if this horrendous new measure has its intended effect, eliminating the use of painful control techniques in nonviolent demonstrations, his department may have no choice but to watch as demonstrators of any stripe take over any facility they choose, he said. But, unlike Gates, she believes that using pain-compliance against any nonviolent demonstrator is often barbaric, and she supports restraints on the police. Sobel was amused at how quickly lawmakers addressed complaints of police brutality that, she said, have been raised for years by protesters against U.S. policy in El Salvador by members of the Revolutionary Communist Party and other groups generally viewed less sympathetically by conservatives. Jim Cady in the Times Editorial Library assisted in the research for this article. * NEW USE FOR OLD TOOL An ancient Asian farm tool has become a cutting edge weapon for many police officers in Southern California. 