The Second Amendment, in its language and its history, makes plain that the need for a well-regulated militia is a sufficient condition for the right to keep and bear arms. Thus he says that In this version, 'bearing arms' must mean 'to render military service,' or why else would there have to be an exemption for religious reasons? Yet Mr. Goldwin believes the amendment means, as he later says, that the right to bear arms meant the right to serve in the militia. Roger Pilon Senior Fellow and Director Center for Constitutional Studies CATO Institute Washington --- The militia is not the National Guard but rather the people of the original states. The fear of standing armies and the control these armed men gave a central government was foremost in the Framers' minds when writing the Bill of Rights. Samuel R. Bush III Cincinnati --- Let those who want guns join the National Guard, says Mr. Goldwin. If anything, the reasons for citizens to own weapons for self-defense are more compelling today than they were in 1791. Consider that George Mason (1725-1792), the great Virginia constitutionalist, defined quite clearly the meaning of the word militia during a debate in 1788. I ask who are the militia? he said, and then answered his own question with the words: They consist now of the whole people (emphasis added). Further, a 1903 U.S. law defined the militia as not only the National Guard, but all able-bodied males between 18 and 45. What I resent is Mr. Goldwin's agenda, which is removal of all guns from American citizens through the implementation of total regulations; a direct violation of the Second Amendment through nefarious means. Edward F. Menninger Sterling Heights, Mich. --- Mr. Goldwin suggests gun control via enlistment in the National Guard. Updating the right to bear arms from 1791 to 1991, when I report for service I'll bring, as required, a few items consistent with the current infantryman's inventory: a Barett Light.50 semiautomatic sniper rifle, so I can reach out and touch people half a mile away; a Squad Automatic Weapon firing 5.56mm rounds at the rate of a whole lot per second out of 30-round clips or hundred-round belts; a 40mm grenade launcher... but you get the idea. 