While some shareholder attorneys routinely file multimillion-dollar suits whenever a takeover is announced or the market drops, the suits against Mr. Milken seem to be much more likely to succeed than most. In each case, the former junk bond impresario will be viewed as a convicted felon. -- So much evidence against him has already been gathered by federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission, much of which will eventually become available to shareholder lawyers, that plaintiffs' attorneys will have to do relatively little sleuthing of their own. -- While Mr. Milken didn't plead guilty to any racketeering counts, recent court cases have made it increasingly easy to show a so-called pattern of racketeering in civil cases. It's a very real possibility, said Mr. Greenfield, who has filed several cases against Mr. Milken. Steven Rosenfeld, an attorney for Mr. Milken, says there are no plans whatsoever for his client to seek bankruptcy-court protection. One of the most sweeping, filed last month in Los Angeles by shareholders of Unocal Corp., accuses Mr. Milken, Drexel and many major takeover artists of the 1980s of a massive conspiracy that defrauded shareholders in takeover targets. Mr. Greenfield's firm filed the suit along with plaintiff lawyer William S. Lerach of the shareholder law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie and Lerach. Under the alleged arrangement, Mr. Milken shared secret information with market operatives and backed the takeover attempts of such raiders as Carl Icahn, Ronald Perelman, T. Boone Pickens and others. According to the allegations, a raider would typically tell Mr. Milken he wanted to take over a particular company, and Mr. Milken would then issue junk bonds for the raider's companies and arrange for other raiders to buy the bonds. Meanwhile, at Mr. Milken's direction, arbitragers would purchase big blocks of stock in the target company with guarantees against loss provided by Mr. Milken, the suit claims. While the Unocal suit claims enormous damages to shareholders, a suit filed by Mr. Greenfield's firm in February may be even broader. Also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against Mr. Boesky, Drexel, Mr. Milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations. Many of these cases are pending in federal court in New York, where pretrial fact-finding has been slowed because of the unavailability of Mr. Boesky, Mr. Milken and others to testify at depositions. Finally, a sprinkling of cases across the country target Mr. Milken among many other defendants in cases alleging that savings and loans associations and other companies suffered losses because they purchased large portfolios of Drexel's junk bonds as part of back-scratching arrangements with Mr. Milken. But a spokesman for Mr. Pickens's Mesa Petroleum Co., a defendant in the Unocal case, calls the allegations silly stuff. Nonetheless, the plaintiff's lawyers agree that winning a trial against Mr. Milken wouldn't be easy. Alan Bromberg, a law professor at Southern Methodist University, says showing a chain of bond purchases doesn't necessarily prove that Mr. Milken was in control of the sellers and buyers, but it does permit that inference. Mr. Bromberg and others assert that Mr. Liman, Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, negotiated to make the plea agreement narrow enough so that little of what Mr. Milken admitted to can be used against him in the civil suits. Thus, the government's full case against Mr. Freeman, who had pleaded guilty to just one insider trading charge, was kept from public view. In the Milken case, however, prosecutors are expected to outline a broad scheme of alleged wrongdoing, involving a wide range of companies and securities. Those charges could be exceedingly helpful to plainitffs lawyers building civil cases against him. Realistically, it's highly unlikely that the civil cases against Mr. Milken will ever go to trial. Most shareholder cases are settled, and Mr. Greenfield says he has had only two jury trials in the past six years, while handling scores of suits. And, in the Milken litigation, settling so many high-stakes cases could be a long and tricky process in itself. --- Major Actions Against Milken, Others CASE: Unocal Corp. Shareholder Derivative Suit BACKGROUND: Filed by shareholders on behalf of Unocal, this civil RICO suit seeks to recoup losses allegedly incurred by the petroleum giant and its shareholders during T. DEFENDANTS: Defendants include Michael and Lori Milken, T. Boone Pickens, Paul Bilzerian, Carl Icahn, Irwin Jacobs, Ronald Perelman and many others. 