The new year ushers in a new wildfire season, an unwelcome thought to the residents of this small Montana tourist town on the northeastern corner of Yellowstone National Park. For two months last summer the citizens of Cooke City and its tiny suburb, Silver Gate, were showcased on the nightly TV news and splashed across the front pages of the nation's newspapers as forest fires threatened to burn them out. "The first thing most people around here did was go on vacation," said Patti Smith, owner with her husband, Bob, of the Bearclaw Service and Cabins, a gas station and small motel. "The fire really took a toll on a lot of folks. The Smiths, who own the only photocopy machine for 30 miles in every direction, found their small gas station and convenience store a mecca during the fires. The U.S. Forest Service, which coordinated some of its firefighting efforts from Cooke City, set up shop near the photocopy machine, and everybody who had information or was seeking some crammed into the Smiths' log cabin office. Winter now cloaks Cooke City and Silver Gate, and only about 70 year-round residents remain to weather the below-zero months. The only grocery store is on its winter schedule, open just Friday through Monday, and many curio shops are shut up tight, but the Bearclaw cabins and most of the other motels are open for winter sports enthusiasts. Nearly four feet of snow has piled up against the Smiths' cabins and "that's just the way I like it," exulted Mrs. Smith. It's snowmobiling season now, and clubs from as far away as Canada and Illinois are booked into Cooke City's motels to take advantage of the beautiful scenery and 80 miles of trails in the area. Like nearly everybody else in Cooke City and Silver Gate, Mrs. Smith says she never wants to go through another summer like the last one. Because of the unprecedented fire season which burned nearly 1.5 million acres in the greater Yellowstone ecosystem, including 705,000 acres within the national park, Mrs. Smith and her friends and neighbors worry about what's happening underneath the blanket of snow this winter. "Could the fires survive the winter and pick up and come at us again?" Rod Norum, a fire behavior analyst with the National Park Service, said he would not be surprised if pockets of fire are found in the greater Yellowstone area come spring. 