Hoping to defuse criticism that it is not doing its share to oppose Baghdad, Japan said up to $2 billion in aid may be sent to nations most affected by the U.N. embargo on Iraq. "America must stand up to aggression, and we will," said Bush, who added that the U.S. military may remain in the Saudi Arabian desert indefinitely. Bush's aides said the president would follow his address to Congress with a televised message for the Iraqi people, declaring the world is united against their government's invasion of Kuwait. 2 invasion of Kuwait, by getting poor countries to dock their tankers in Iraq. But according to a State Department survey, Cuba and Romania have struck oil deals with Iraq and companies elsewhere are trying to continue trade with Baghdad, all in defiance of U.N. sanctions. But the source, who requested anonymity, said the deal was struck during Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz's visit Sunday to Tehran, the first by a senior Iraqi official since the 1980-88 gulf war. Well-informed oil industry sources in the region, contacted by The AP, said that although Iran is a major oil exporter itself, it currently has to import about 150,000 barrels of refined oil a day for domestic use because of damages to refineries in the gulf war. Along similar lines, ABC News reported that following Aziz's visit, Iraq is apparently prepared to give Iran all the oil it wants to make up for the damage Iraq inflicted on Iran during their conflict. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, meanwhile, met in Moscow with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, two days after the U.S.-Soviet summit that produced a joint demand that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait. During the summit, Bush encouraged Mikhail Gorbachev to withdraw 190 Soviet military specialists from Iraq, where they remain to fulfill contracts. "A soldier can rape a father's daughter in front of him and he can't do anything about it." _The State Department said Iraq had told U.S. officials that American males residing in Iraq and Kuwait who were born in Arab countries will be allowed to leave. It was not known how many men the Iraqi move could affect. _A Pentagon spokesman said "some increase in military activity" had been detected inside Iraq near its borders with Turkey and Syria. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said the cost of the U.S. military buildup in the Middle East was rising above the $1 billion-a-month estimate generally used by government officials. Japan, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the crisis in the gulf, said Tuesday it may give $2 billion to Egypt, Jordan and Turkey, hit hardest by the U.N. prohibition on trade with Iraq. But critics in the United States have said Japan should do more because its economy depends heavily on oil from the Middle East. On Monday, Saddam offered developing nations free oil if they would send their tankers to pick it up. Manila said it had already fulfilled its oil requirements, and Namibia said it would not "sell its sovereignty" for Iraqi oil. But according to the State Department, Cuba, which faces an oil deficit because of reduced Soviet deliveries, has received a shipment of Iraqi petroleum since U.N. sanctions were imposed five weeks ago. And Romania, it said, expects to receive oil indirectly from Iraq. 