LJUBLJANA, Yugoslavia -- As federal army tanks and jets pounded the breakaway republic of Slovenia last week, the pin-striped brokers of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange defied air-raid dangers and gathered in their sixth-floor trading room. The price of vouchers to obtain foreign exchange jumped 10%, even though Slovene banks had stopped issuing foreign currency. </LP> Yesterday, with a tenuous peace settling over Slovenia, the exchange panicked. The two million people of this picturesque Alpine republic are waking up from their two-week nightmare sobered by the implications of their intoxicating declaration of secession from Yugoslavia on June 25. Their considerable trade with the rest of Yugoslavia, which helped make them the country's richest people, is vanishing. Their identity is being turned upside down; once known as Yugoslavia's developed north, Slovenia will now be lumped together with Western Europe's underdeveloped south. Almost every country on the continent has its own disenchanted minorities, from the Soviet Baltics to French Corsica, that could be encouraged by the independence declarations of Slovenia and the neighboring republic of Croatia. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has held up recent events here -- the Yugoslav army assault on Slovenia and the bitter ethnic clashes between Croats and Serbs -- as a warning to his land of what can happen when nationalism fractures a country. The Slovenes, from their days in the Austro-Hungarian empire, have always considered themselves to be Westerners. Nestled between the Alps and the Adriatic, Slovenia became the most prosperous patch of communist Europe. Joze Mencinger, an economist and former finance minister of Slovenia, illustrates the republic's economic resilience by noting that while Yugoslavia's industrial output fell 18% so far this year, Slovenia's declined only 10%. But Slovene economists reckon that exports would have to double to match the performance of other small European countries. Slovenia is counting on expanding its already extensive ties with Austria (a joint venture between Austrian and Slovene companies recently completed a high-tech Alpine tunnel opening another border crossing) as well as courting more business with its other old Austro-Hungarian partners, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. It's not size that makes a country successful, says Josip Skoberne, head of the international division of the Slovene Chamber of Economy, citing EC-member Luxembourg, far smaller in population and area than Slovenia. Finding new markets in the West is all the more urgent with the certain decline in Slovenia's trade with the rest of Yugoslavia. A quarter of all goods produced in Slovenia are purchased by other Yugoslavs, and Slovene leaders counted on maintaining these ties even after declaring independence. One of the major motivations behind Slovenia's independence grab was to free itself from the Yugoslav risk that hampered most attempts to attract foreign investment. At the stock exchange, Mr. Veselinovic frets that his post-independence plans to trade in gold, commodities and foreign currencies are jeopardized by the uncertainty engulfing Slovenia. 