His lawyer said he would appeal the conviction.; The victims were among thousands of bondholders who lost $250 million when Irvine-based Lincoln collapsed, the costliest thrift failure in history with a bailout tab to taxpayers of $2.6 billion.; Many elderly investors said they were told Keating's bonds were safe, like insured certificates of deposit.; We couldn't bring their money back, but we brought them a measure of justice, said lead prosecutor William Hodgman.; Jeri Mellon, the leader of a bondholders support group, shouted Justice! We're talking to legislators, anybody who'll listen, insisting that the (criminal) case be postponed.; We can't wait another 2 1/2 years until they get to our trial. ; Several lawyers involved in the Keating legal wars told the Associated Press that a federal indictment, of Keating and probably four others, would be returned this month. 12.; A Los Angeles federal grand jury has spent more than two years investigating Keating, his family and officers and directors of Lincoln and its parent company, Phoenix's American Continental Corp. Keating was American Continental's chairman and chief executive.; Four former associates have pleaded guilty to federal crimes and are cooperating with prosecutors in hopes of light sentences.; The federal prosecutors in Los Angeles, Alice Hill and David Sklansky, declined to comment on when an indictment might come, as did Justice Department spokesman Doug Tillett in Washington.; However, the topic surfaced publicly Wednesday as prosecutor Hodgman and defense attorney Stephen C. Neal addressed Superior Court Judge Lance A. Ito, who set sentencing for Feb. Thomas A. Burger, its former chief lending officer, received 12 years and was ordered to pay $6 million in restitution.; (box) ERNEST J. BADARACCO JR. -- The former president of the failed Elysian Federal Savings in Hoboken, N.J., was sentenced June 11 to 21 months in prison for fraud and ordered to pay $293,000 restitution.; (box) ROY WAYNE DAILEY -- The former owner of Conroe-based First Savings Association of East Texas was sentenced April 8 to 12 years in prison and ordered to pay $5 million in restitution. McKinzie was also ordered make restitution of almost $14 million looted from the collapsed thrift.; (box) BURTON BONGARD -- The former president of Home State Savings Bank of Ohio was sentenced on July 22, 1987, to 10 years for conspiracy and fraud.; (box) JEROME S. CARDIN -- A former part-owner of the now-defunct Old Court Savings and Loan Association of Baltimore, he was sentenced Jan. He was also fined $5,000.; (box) JEFFREY A. LEVITT -- The former president of Old Court Savings and Loan Association was sentenced July 2, 1986, to 30 years in prison for theft of $14.69 million from the thrift. 