The tanker that caused the nation's biggest oil spill was being illegally piloted by its third mate when the vessel ran aground on a reef, Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday. Exxon Shipping spokesman Brian Dunphy told The Associated Press that the captain of the tanker Exxon Valdez, Joseph Hazelwood, was not on the bridge at the time of the accident and that third mate Gregory Cousins was in command. "It's Exxon's policy that in the waters that the ship was located in, the captain should have been on the bridge," Dunphy said. As clean-up efforts continued Sunday, fishermen fearing lost income sought compensation Sunday. Exxon Shipping Co. held a meeting Sunday between fishermen and a company claims officer. "We're not ready to absorb any loss," said Riki Ott, spokeswoman for United Fishermen of Alaska. Department of Interior spokeswoman Pamela Bergmann said a wildlife specialist sailed in the sound Saturday and observed 75 ducks and two otters coated with oil. "This oil spill may well be the greatest disaster to hit Alaska since the Good Friday earthquake 25 years ago," Cowper said in a news release. The 987-foot tanker Exxon Valdez, carrying 1.2 million barrels of North Slope crude oil loaded at Valdez, ran onto a reef 25 miles from the port early Friday after swinging out of a traffic lane to avoid ice. The only larger oil-related accident in U.S. waters was the spilling and burning of up to 10.7 million gallons of oil when two ships collided in Galveston Bay in 1979. More than four miles of floating boom had been placed in an effort to contain the oil, the Coast Guard said Sunday. An additional 3,000 feet was to be deployed at Galena Bay at the request of fishermen. The transfer of oil remaining aboard the Exxon Valdez to the Exxon Baton Rouge resumed late Saturday. By late Sunday, Exxon officials said a total of 37,500 barrels of oil had been transferred in the first two days of the operation, leaving more than 900,000 barrels on the ship. However, the wind and waves may make it more difficult to skim oil off the water, said Coast Guard Lt. An experiment to assess the possibility of burning off the oil was completed early Sunday and the Coast Guard said Exxon officials were "cautiously optimistic." Environmentalists, the governor and other top state officials have accused Exxon and Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. of responding too slowly to the spill. Exxon Shipping Co. President Frank Iarossi said Exxon has reviewed information gathered by divers and determined there are five holes in the vessel's hull on the starboard side. The ship's captain and two bridge crew members, including Cousins, were relieved of duty Saturday and subpoenaed by the NTSB. The spill came at a time when Prince William Sound fishermen were preparing for the herring season, which is followed by harvests of shellfish and salmon. Many are concerned they will get only minimal harvests because of the oil damage, and then will face the longer-term problem of bad publicity. "It's possible they could avoid the oil," Brown said. Ott said fishing is an economic mainstay in Cordova, more so than in Valdez, which also draws tourists and has the oil terminal. 