Britain and France were linked beneath the English Channel on Tuesday when workers used a two-inch probe to connect two halves of a 31-mile undersea rail tunnel, officials reported. Management sources at TransManche Link, the construction consortium building the "Chunnel" - the Channel Tunnel - confirmed the historic linkup occurred about 8:25 p.m. when British workers sent the probe through to French colleagues. "This is a hugely historic moment because it means, in effect, that Britain is no longer an island," said a construction union official. The basic goal of the Channel Tunnel project is to enable passengers to travel between London and Paris in about three hours. The threading of the probes through 100 yards of chalk under the English Channel marks a major turning point in three years of drilling on the world's costliest tunnel. The tunnel starts a few miles inland on each side, accounting for its total length of 31 miles. French workers reaching the tiny hole telephoned their British counterparts and relayed the news to TransManche officials. It's the first time we have air passing between the two tunnels," said Gordon Crighton, tunnel engineering manager. A work slowdown since last week by militant tunnelers demanding more pay on the French side appeared likely Monday to stall the linkup until the weekend or beyond. The Chunnel actually consists of three tunnels - two for railway trains and a smaller maintenance tunnel between them. Taking into account all the tunnels, 80 percent of the drilling has been completed by giant, Japanese-built boring machines working from Calais and Folkstone, England. Tuesday's linkup in the service tunnel is described by the French as a "mouse ole" - a bore only two inches in diameter. President Francois Mitterrand and Mrs. Thatcher are expected to meet each other in the tunnel Jan. Officials estimate the tunnel may carry 28 million passengers in the first year of operation, although Eurotunnel doesn't expect a profit until the end of the century. A study released last Friday in Paris by transportation experts said the tunnel's completion will aggravate traffic congestion in a wide area of continental Europe. Five British firms were ordered last Wednesday to stand trial on charges related to the death of a construction worker last year. 