On the face of it, those figures would seem to resolve the age-old debate over whether increases in the minimum wage cost the economy a significant number of lost jobs. Higher wages... for some will mean jobs lost for those workers who are trying hardest to break into the labor market, warns GOP Sen. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce forecasts that the proposed wage rise, to $4.65 hourly over three years, with further increases later, would cause the loss of 1.9 million jobs by 1995. He says the increase would affect the unemployment rate by less than one-tenth of a percentage point, and adds: Estimates of dire consequences to the economy as a result of raising the minimum wage do not stand up to scrutiny. John Zalusky, an economist at the AFL-CIO, which is strongly pushing the minimum-wage increase, snaps: The whole issue of job loss comes up every time, and there's never been any jobs lost. The labor federation notes that since World War II, employment actually increased each time the minimum wage was raised, except in the 1975 recession. Ronald Sarasin, a lobbyist for the National Restaurant Association, acknowledges that we're going to survive even if the the wage is increased, but warns of the consequences for low-paid workers: This is less a business issue than a jobs issue. For instance, a 1970 report ordered by then-Labor Secretary George Shultz found that general business conditions are the main influence on teen-age employment, with only hints of an adverse effect from the minimum wage showing up in the data. In 1981, the staff of the Minimum Wage Study Commission, which was appointed by President Carter, estimated that a 10% increase in the minimum wage would trim teen-age employment demand by about 1%, and that rises in that wage have had little impact on overall unemployment. Among adults, the commission found that if increases in the wage floor lowered employment at all -- which it said isn't clear -- the amount may be so small as to be undetectable with any precision. Opponents of raising the minimum wage insist that past increases have had a substantial effect in both layoffs and disemployment -- workers not hired who otherwise would have been. In many areas, however, a growing shortage of new workers has resulted in more-generous wages for fast-food, retail and other jobs, making the minimum-wage question irrelevant. Many association members already pay well above the wage floor, explains Randolph Hale, a vice president: It's an important issue, but it's not the end of the world. In return for administration agreement to raising the wage, Mr. Brock says, Congress must also allow a youth differential wage that's lower than the minimum wage, so as not to discourage employers from hiring untrained new job entrants. He is also pushing to exempt small business from the wage-floor requirement, and wants legislators to drop a provision that after 1990 would tie the minimum wage to average manufacturing wages. 