One of the latest informational gimmicks is a "USDA Backgrounder" listing the department's "drought-related actions" since the blotter-like furnaces began roaring across most of the nation. Michael agreed during questioning by a reporter that the action list is lean on actual dollars going into the drought aid. One involved meat purchases for school cafeterias and the other a credit deal for the sale of meat to Mexico. The first lists 22 separate drought "actions" by USDA or its people, beginning more than four months ago. Standing hay on farms held in inventory (taken over) by the Farmers Home Administration can be sold at a reasonable cost to help feed livestock in drought counties where state offices of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service have authorized release of set-aside acres for haying and grazing. _June 14. The White House announces a new Interagency Drought Policy Committee made up of USDA, Interior, the Office of the Vice President and several other agencies. The Interagency Drought Policy Committee meets for the first time. _June 20. USDA begins making daily audio tapes of weather updates available to news media. _June 21. Lyng and other USDA officials meet in Chicago with the National Governors' Association Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. _June 23. While in Chicago, Lyng announces a toll-free hotline to answer questions about federal services available in drought areas. _June 23. After the White House meeting, the Interagency Drought Policy Committee meets for the second time at USDA. _June 24. USDA announces that special crop surveys in several states and other steps will be taken to update the department's July 12 crop report and supply-and-demand projections for fall harvets, including corn and soybeans. _June 27. An additional $50 million has been set aside to buy bulk ground beef for donation to schools lunch and other feeding programs, to help cattle producers hurt by drought. _June 27. Lyng authorizes additional emergency provisions in drought counties, including permission for selling hay to anyone, and the harvest of ACR, CUA and CRP land as green chop for immediate feeding to livestock or silage. _June 27. Intragency Drought Policy Committee meets for the third time. _June 28. 