Lamar was confirmed on a 32-28 vote.; President Bush, elated by the approval of his nominee, called Thomas to congratulate him. Well done. ; In a statement issued by the White House, Bush referred to Thomas as a man of principle who is sensitive to the problems and opportunities facing all Americans. ; But feminists were outraged. Today the Senate sacrificed the integrity of the Supreme Court, its own reputation and the rights of American women to the Bush-Reagan agenda, the Women's Legal Defense Fund said in a statement released after the vote.; Thomas said he wanted to put his confirmation ordeal, which lasted more than three months, behind him.; This is more a time for healing, not a time for anger or for animus or animosity, he told reporters in a brief interview outside his Virginia home.; I guess in so many ways, as I say to my wife so many times, I'd like to thank America, he said.; In Norman, Okla., the woman whose complaints prompted the extraordinary weekend hearings on sexual harassment allegations against Thomas said she hoped his confirmation wouldn't stop others from complaining about harassment in the workplace.; Law Professor Anita Hill, once an aide to Thomas, declined to comment specifically about the Senate vote. He will not participate in these cases unless the other justices anticipate a tie vote and order new arguments.; The Senate vote followed a 7-7 Senate Judiciary Committee deadlock over the nomination and committee hearings of unprecedented range, from discussions of lofty constitutional principles to accounts of lurid sexual misconduct.; Under oath, Hill accused Thomas of misusing his position as her boss at the Department of Education and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission by sexually harassing her a decade ago. With that issue undecided, Thomas backers argued that he was entitled to a presumption of innocence and a number of Democrats agreed.; Professor Hill's allegations cannot be used to justify a vote against Judge Thomas, Sen. Alan Dixon, D-Ill., concluded in casting his ballot for Thomas.; The hearings on the harassment charges led only four previously pro-Thomas Democrats to change their minds and vote against him: Richard Bryan and Harry Reid of Nevada, Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and Bob Graham of Florida.; Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said Thomas was a decent human being who was wronged because of a process that broke down... and his life, though not ruined by any stretch of the imagination, has been severely harmed. ; Disagreeing, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said: To give the benefit of the doubt to Judge Thomas is to say that Judge Thomas is more important than the Supreme Court. ; Thomas' defiant and powerful response to the charges was, to many observers, a critical turning point in the hearings.; He refused to tolerate any further inquiries into his private life and portrayed himself as an innocent victim of a high-tech lynching for uppity blacks and the most bigoted, racist stereotypes of the sexual prowess of black men.; But several senators deplored the injection of race into the Thomas nomination.; Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who opposed the nomination, blamed the administration.; I'm saddened that once again race was used as a tool for short-term political gain, Leahy said.; Thomas will succeed retired Justice Thurgood Marshall, the first black justice and the Supreme Court's last link to the liberal Warren Court of the 1950s and 1960s.; As the youngest Supreme Court justice, Thomas is expected to remain on the high court for decades, long enough to grapple with anticipated 21st-century legal issues stemming from new reproductive technologies, gay and lesbian claims to family rights, experimental drugs, multinational business arrangements and other developments.; How they voted; Here is the 52-48 roll call by which the Senate voted to confirm Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court.; (box) REPUBLICANS voting for (41):; Murkowski, Alaska Stevens, Alaska McCain, Ariz. Kennedy, Mass. Kerrey, Neb.; Bryan, Nev.(*) Reid, Nev.(*) Bradley, N.J. Lautenberg N.J.; Bingaman, N.M. Moynihan N.Y. Sanford N.C. Burdick N.D.; Conrad, N.D. Glenn Ohio Metzenbaum, Ohio Wofford, Penn.; Pell, R.I. Daschle S.D. Gore Tenn. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Adams, Wash. Kohl, Wisc.; (*)The four Democrats who switched their votes from favoring to opposing Thomas were Lieberman of Connecticut, Graham of Florida and Bryan and Reid of Nevada. 