Hispanics are three times as likely to develop diabetes as the general population, and 40 percent of the 700,000 victims in Texas are Mexican-American. San Antonio's Hispanic makeup led Dr. Ralph DeFronzo to abandon his prestigious position as a Yale University diabetes researcher and persuade his four-member team to relocate to the University of Texas Health Science Center. Researchers believe that poor Hispanics' diets of cheap, processed foods, lack of exercise and infrequent medical attention _ either due to poverty or a cultural bias against doctors _ increases their risk of acquiring diabetes. (AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> Aly El-Shiekh envisions astronauts on a three-year trip to Mars "knitting" themselves a space station using ceramic fibers that can be braided into panels, beams, boxes and practically any other shape. El-Shiekh and his students are developing machinery to braid long strands of ceramic fibers. While much of his work relates to the Mars Mission Research Center here, El-Shiekh sees a big future for composite materials like ceramic fibers. "The day may very well come when you are driving around with car engine parts of ceramic fiber," he said, adding that the vibration-damping properties of the materials also would make them good for torsion bars in cars. The fibers, including Kevlar now used to make bulletproof vests, also could be used to make some body parts, and El-Shiekh is working with Duke University researchers on ceramic "stents," collapsible braces for arteries. "The big problem is cost and that's why we're working on this automated machinery." </TEXT> <HEAD>ERs Now Seeing Effects Of Changing Type Of Coke Addiction</HEAD> <DATELINE>BOSTON (AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> It's 8 p.m. and a dozen people wait in the lobby of Boston City Hospital's emergency room. It's a question that has become more and more commonplace in emergency rooms already burdened by increased patient loads. Efforts to stem the rising tide of drug abuse comes at a time when emergency rooms already face increased patient loads, partly because of the reduced role of the traditional family doctor and partly because there are more people who can't afford a private doctor. "It's really providing a major backlog in the emergency department system," said Diane Howard, director of the American Hospital Association's division of ambulatory care and health promotion. 