Anyone who doesn't feel at least a tinge of compassion for the man doesn't have an ounce of compassion in his body. He's just a guy who was in the right place at the right time -- he started dealing in junk bonds when bargains were lying around like truffles on the forest floor -- who took a good idea much too far. Which, in fact, they aren't, as the current crash in the junk market -- or in what remains of the junk market -- shows. Milken was obsessed with getting more and more people to accept the Gospel of Junk, and he almost single-handedly turned junk from a backwater of finance into a mainstream investment. When the junk market was small and had few players, people had no one to deal with but Milken, and he could keep weak borrowers out of the market. Once other brokerage houses decided to go after the junk business, Milken's competitive juices -- and his obsession with controlling every aspect of everything in his life -- compelled him to do whatever sleazy things it took to nail down business. If junk had stayed a backwater -- and if either the enforcers at the Securities and Exchange Commission or Milken's alleged superiors at Drexel Burnham Lambert reined Milken in -- he wouldn't be going to jail. In fact, Drexel let Milken move the entire junk department from New York City to his native California. To understand Milken, you have to understand that when he wandered into the world of junk bonds at a third-rate Philadelphia brokerage house in the 1970s, the junk market consisted of a handful of canny investors who spent their days searching through the rubble of financially distressed companies searching for securities that were better than they looked. Because Milken is very smart, has a good head for numbers and could work incredible hours, he found more of these little jewels than anyone else did. This meant that when early junkmeisters -- Saul P. Steinberg of Reliance Insurance, Laurence A. Tisch of Loews, Carl Lindner of Penn Central and American Financial, to name a few -- wanted to buy or sell junk, they had to deal with Milken. But as the market for junk grew larger -- mainly because of what Michael was doing -- Milken wanted to keep all the business. To do that, he financed deals that he knew he should never have touched, and he went so far as to offer secret goodies to people who had money to invest in junk. When the market was small, no one knew or cared what Milken was doing. But that market is gone, and many of his most important junk clients -- Columbia Savings &amp; Loan of Beverly Hills, First Executive Corp. of Los Angeles -- are busto, and many others, such as Lindner and Steinberg -- seem to be in big trouble. 