Junk bond wizard Michael Milken officially ended his 20-year career at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. on Thursday and said he will launch his own financial consulting firm while he awaits trial on racketeering and securities fraud charges. In a telephone interview, he said his new firm, International Capital Access Group, would offer a wide range of consulting services consistent with his personal interests and his previous work at Drexel. 'Very Emotional Experience' The timing of Milken's resignation appears to have been influenced by a Supreme Court decision last week that cleared the way for Drexel to complete its announced plan to settle civil insider-trading and securities fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. It requires Drexel to terminate Milken's employment and also avoid any direct or indirect business dealings with him. Lowell Milken had been a lawyer with the Los Angeles firm of Irell &amp; Manella before he left in 1978 to help his brother run Drexel's junk bond department. 'Naturally Disappointed' Milken started out in 1969 as a part-time employee at Drexel Harriman, a Philadelphia investment firm that was a precursor to Drexel Burnham Lambert, while attending the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business. In a written statement issued Thursday, Milken said: Drexel is the only company I've worked for since graduating from college. I am naturally disappointed to be forced to leave Drexel as part of the firm's settlement with the government, but I look forward to the opportunity of helping people build companies. Steven Anreder, Drexel's spokesman, said: Michael Milken made many important contributions to Drexel Burnham, and his resignation, although not unexpected, is a sad event. Declined to Speculate Milken said he isn't currently talking with any of his former colleagues at Drexel about coming to work for his new firm, but he didn't rule out that possibility. Exactly what one would be interested in doing in the future I don't know. For the time being, Milken's legal problems probably will prevent him from competing directly with Drexel, individuals involved in the legal cases said. But sources said the potential exists nevertheless for conflicts with Drexel. The SEC settlement's ban on Drexel doing business either directly or indirectly with Milken could be interpreted to mean that Drexel can't do business with clients advised by Milken. If it goes into effect, however, it conceivably could force clients to choose between dealing with Milken or Drexel. 'More Demands Than Ever' Friends of Milken's have speculated that one reason he decided to start a new firm now is that, since taking a leave of absence from Drexel, he has had an unaccustomed amount of time on his hands. Gary Lynch, the SEC's director of enforcement, declined to comment Thursday on Milken's decision to open a new business. The Milken brothers still face SEC civil charges as well as the separate criminal charges. Milken, his brother and former Drexel trader Bruce L. Newberg are likely to go to trial on the pending criminal charges sometime early next year. A number of Milken's former colleagues at Drexel already have been granted immunity from prosecution and are cooperating with the government investigation. Sources confirmed Thursday that another former Drexel employee, Reed Harmon, who had worked closely with Milken, was recently granted immunity in exchange for testimony before a grand jury. Drexel has agreed to plead guilty to six criminal charges and pay $650 million in penalties under an agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Manhattan. Lawyers for Michael and Lowell Milken are challenging provisions of the settlement agreement, including a requirement that Drexel withhold much of the brothers' compensation owed them for 1988. 