Unfortunately, there is the Second Amendment to the Constitution: A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed. Since the amendment's stated purpose is arming state militias, they reason, it creates no individual right to own a gun. The purpose of the First Amendment's free-speech guarantee was pretty clearly to protect political discourse. But why leap to the conclusion that a broadly worded constitutional freedom ( the right of the people to keep and bear arms ) is narrowly limited by its stated purpose, unless you're trying to explain it away? A colleague says that if liberals interpreted the Second Amendment the way they interpret the rest of the Bill of Rights, there would be law professors arguing that gun ownership is mandatory. The most thorough parsing of the Second Amendment is a 1983 article in the Michigan Law Review by Don Kates, a gun enthusiast. The fact that once upon a time everyone was a member of the militia doesn't prove that everyone still has a right to a gun even after the composition of the militia has changed. The phrase right of the people appears four other times in the Bill of Rights (including the First Amendment). In all these other cases, everyone agrees that it creates a right for individual citizens, not just some collective right of states as a whole. Kates also marshals impressive historical evidence that the Second Amendment, like other Bill of Rights protections, was intended to incorporate English common law rights of the time, which pretty clearly included the right to keep a gun in your home for reasons having nothing to do with the militia. In the Supreme Court's one 20th-Century treatment of the Second Amendment, it held somewhat ambiguously in 1939 that sawed-off shotguns aren't necessarily protected by the Constitution without proof that they are the kind of weapon a militia might have used. He says that the amendment places no limit on mandatory registration or laws against concealed weapons in public. The downside of having those rights inscribed in a Constitution, protected from the whims of majority rule, is that they can't be re-defined as life changes. Gun nuts are unconvincing (at least to me) in their attempts to argue that the individual right to bear arms is still as vital to freedom as it was in 1792. 