This is something we in the age of the-family-that-is-not-a-family forget: the raw power of love and how it is the one essential element in the creation of functioning and successful people, and how its absence twists the psyche and the heart. Lives like Judge Thomas's remind us of this simple truth. --- It was once thought that to choose a conservative black for a high appointment put liberals in an uncomfortable position, but we will learn in the Thomas hearings that this is no longer so. Not that the hearings will be color blind, it's just that senators are going to use Mr. Thomas's race to prove things about themselves with it. Some on the right will use Mr. Thomas's race to demonstrate again that ours is the party of true racial progress, that not a trace of racism clogs the conservative heart. The left will be tough not only because Mr. Thomas represents ideological insult. Those on the left are unmoved by Mr. Thomas's climb from nothing to something because he didn't do it the right way -- through them and with their programs. When Mr. Thomas made his moving statement at Kennebunkport last week he thanked the people who had helped him along the way, including the nuns who taught him. The nuns' affirmative action for Clarence Thomas was the only effective, meaningful kind: the kind we perform for individuals, not because it is state-mandated but because it is right, not because we love a race but because we care for people and love our country. But what, Judge Thomas, about those who were not born with your advantages, and by that I mean not wealth and comfort but brilliance and determination and a family. What about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- For Judge Thomas's proponents, two great hopes: One is that the administration will hit America where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. The left calls the Thomas appointment a hijacking, a right-wing coup for the court, but this is the opposite of the truth. Mr. Thomas's appointment is not a traducing of the people's will but a fulfillment of their directive. --- Miss Noonan is a writer in New York. 