Here is the text of President Bush's address to the people of Iraq, as released by the White House: I'm here today to explain to the people of Iraq why the United States and the world community has responded the way it has to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. 2, your leadership made its decision to invade, an unprovoked attack on a small nation that posed no threat to your own. And the world met Iraq's invasion with a chorus of condemnation, unanimous resolutions in the United Nations. Twenty-seven states, rich and poor, Arab, Muslim, Asian and African, have answered the call of Saudi Arabia and free Kuwait and sent forces to the gulf region to defend against Iraq. For the first time in history, 13 states of the Arab League, representing 80% of the Arab Nation, have condemned a brother Arab state. I do not believe that you, the people of Iraq, want war. No one knows what Iraq might be today, what prosperity and peace you might enjoy had your leaders not plunged you into war. Saddam Hussein tells you that this crisis is a struggle between Iraq and America. And the war with Iran would not have ended two years ago without U.S. support and sponsorship in the United Nations. Saddam Hussein tells you the occupation of Kuwait will benefit the poorer nations of the world. In fact, the occupation of Kuwait is helping no one and is now hurting you, the Iraqi people, and countless others of the world's poor. Instead of acquiring new oil wells by annexing Kuwait, this misguided act of aggression will cost Iraq over $20 billion a year in lost oil revenues. Because of Iraq's aggression, hundreds of thousands of innocent foreign workers are fleeing Kuwait and Iraq. But even worse, others are being held hostage in Iraq and Kuwait. I do not want to add to the suffering of the people of Iraq. The United Nations has put binding sanctions in place, not to punish the Iraqi people, but as a peaceful means to convince your leadership to withdraw from Kuwait. When Iraq returns to the path of peace, when Iraqi troops withdraw from Kuwait, when that country's rightful government is restored, when all foreigners held against their will are released, then, and then alone will the world end the sanctions. When we stand with Kuwait against aggression, we stand for a principle well understood in the Arab world. God forbid, if Iraq should deviate from the right path, we would want Arabs to send their armies to put things right. If Iraq should become intoxicated by its power and move to overwhelm another Arab state, the Arabs would be right to deploy their armies to check it. Today, two years later, Saddam has invaded and occupied a member of the United Nations and the Arab League. Iraq must get out of Kuwait -- for the sake of principle, for the sake of peace and for the sake of the Iraqi people. 