With some people having booked trips as long as three years in advance, airline seats, rental cars and hotel reservations range from difficult to impossible to get, travel agents and others report.; The closer you get to the event, the less there is available, said Paul Kloetzel, president of O'Brien Travel Service in San Jose. There is a certain element of traveler out there (and) there's an awful lot of those people. ; The eclipse will be seen from Hawaii to central Brazil. The eclipse will last the longest -- six minutes and 58 seconds -- at the center of the shadow in the town of Tuxpan, on Mexico's west coast. It really is the most spectacular natural phenomenon possible. ; Bob Bruynesteyn, head of the San Mateo Astronomical Society, puts it succinctly: Not too many people have stood in the shadow of the moon. ; It's romantic images like these that are inspiring a last-minute surge of would-be eclipse-watchers, travel agents say.; Pamela and Daniel Dei Rossi of Campbell were among those scramblers. We had given up. ; Though travel arrangements are now tough to come by, some opportunities remain.; One is to go by the back door.; Hawaii and Baja are the prime spots, because -- statistically at least -- they offer the best chance of cloudless skies. But after enveloping the Big Island and then slicing across southern Baja, the moon's shadow will cross the Gulf of California and race across the southern flank of Mexico and down the west coast of Central America. Airline ticket availability is reported spotty for the resorts but still available for other destinations.; Another possibility is to search around for groups making the trip that have had late cancellations, as the Dei Rossis did.; What probably won't work is the overland route to Baja. From the border to the northern edge of where the eclipse will be total is about a 16-hour drive, said Raul Cardenas, the Mexican consul in San Jose. With the eclipse, there's concern the overbooking could be particularly bad, especially on inter-island flights in Hawaii. I have a feeling this is going to be an ugly scene. ; IF YOU'RE INTERESTED; An eight-page brochure on the July 11 eclipse is available for $2 from the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 390 Ashton Ave., San Francisco, CA 94112. Special Mylar viewers for safely observing the eclipse are also available for another $2. 