Authorities questioned the badly injured pilot of a crashed Boeing 737 Wednesday, but revealed no clues as to why the jet's undamaged right engine was shut down well before the crash while the other engine burned. The Civil Aviation Authority, meanwhile, ordered increased inspections on 37 airplanes with CFM56 engines, the type on the Midland Airways jet that crashed Sunday. U.S. media reported that the crew of the jet shut down the wrong engine, and Britain's tabloid newspapers drew similar conclusions in banner headlines. The Transport Department said that "evidence obtained early in the investigation" indicated both of the plane's engines "might have suffered a related failure" and that possibility was still being examined. The statement from the department's Air Accidents Investigation Branch also confirmed that the airplane's left engine caught fire and the right engine was shut down, and that pilot Kevin Hunt had told ground control the fire was in the right engine. The reasons for shutting down the engine "are not yet clear and are still under investigation," it said. In the United States, NBC News quoted unidentified U.S. government sources as saying "the plane's flight recorders, which monitor engine performance and the pilots' conversations, indicate the crew shut down the wrong engine. The Washington Post, quoting unidentified accident investigators, said the crew believed they were making a routine, one-engine emergency landing, and apparently thought they had solved the problem when they shut down an engine. According to court documents and federal officials in America, the FBI is investigating a General Electric Co. admission that test records may have been falsified at a factory which made parts for the CFM56 engine that failed here. Government sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Hunt reported at 8:06 p.m. that "I have an engine on fire." The Civil Aviation Authority said that on the advice of investigators, it was issuing new instructions for the inspection and monitoring of Boeing 737-300, Boeing 737-400 and Airbus A320 airplanes, all of which use the CFM56 engine. 