Mr Philip Tose, the maverick Hong Kong financier, once offered Britain's Tory party Pounds 5m to remove Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor. With the battle over electoral reform ended, and less than 1,000 days to go before the handover on June 30 1997, the die is cast. As the sense of change becomes palpable - with China's Citic taking the British trading company Jardine Matheson's seat on the board of the powerful Jockey Club, and Mandarin beginning to displace Cantonese on the government radio - it is now up to China to decide how smooth the handover will be, and the shape of life beyond. 'Mr Patten is the governor and the representative of the Hong Kong British government,' says one senior Chinese official in Hong Kong. Some concrete evidence of this new realism is the agreement Beijing reached last month with Britain on the funding for Hong Kong's HKDollars 160bn (Pounds 13bn) airport development. Encouragement is also taken from reports that Mr Qian Qichen, China's foreign minister, is considering a visit to Britain next year. And Chinese officials in Hong Kong indicate a desire to deal with the nitty-gritty of the transfer at a meeting of the Joint Liaison Group, a bilateral body with Britain, this month. But Hong Kong's passage from British colony to a 'special administrative region' of China still seems likely to be dogged by controversy. 'The biggest problem that Hong Kong faces is the stability and continuity of the civil service,' says Mr Allen Lee, the leader of the pro-business Liberal party. 'We are not suggesting any change to the curriculum,' says Mr Tsang Yok Sing, a leading Beijing adviser in Hong Kong who is himself a school headmaster. 'We sent a selection of textbooks to Beijing and they were shocked... by references to Taiwan as the Republic of China, the People's Republic as a neighbour, and the glossing over of Britain's role in the Opium War.' The through train encapsulated the hope that those elected in 1995 to the Legislative Council (LegCo), Hong Kong's 60-member law making body, would be able to serve their full four-year term, regardless of the 1997 handover. After the dispute on electoral reform, Beijing announced that it would dismiss the 1995 LegCo once China resumed sovereignty of Hong Kong, and replace it with a provisional legislature. This decision is set to take Hong Kong into uncharted waters, and casts doubt over the continuity of the colony's legal system. The colonial government had planned to hand over by introducing a piece of midnight legislation to eliminate all references in Hong Kong law to institutions such as the governor and the Queen. However, the Basic Law - the China-drafted mini-constitution for post-1997 Hong Kong - does not provide for a provisional legislature as such, although it does foresee a 'preparatory committee' to be formed in 1996 that will determine who sits in this legislature. Mr Tsang, a member of the Chinese government committee planning for the handover, says the provisional legislature will have full powers to make laws for an expected term of nine to 12 months. A strong showing by Hong Kong's pro-democracy groups, led by Mr Martin Lee's Democratic party, will be seen as a protest vote against Beijing. But a good showing by Beijing's own supporters will create another problem: China would then have to decide whether to accept an elected council favourable to its point of view. 'At least one senior Chinese official has said to me he believes there is no change of restoring co-operation and trust unless and until we have a new governor,' says Mr Tsang. China's supporters in the colony claim that Mr Patten's policy is now to make Hong Kong harder to govern by 'loosening the screws' before the British leave. Mr Zhou Nan, the most senior representative of the Chinese Communist party and government in Hong Kong, recently attacked Mr Patten's plans for a government-funded pension, saying: 'During the transition period, we should not casually transplant a costly Euro-socialist pay-as-you-go concept to Hong Kong without prudently taking into consideration similar western programmes' long-standing track record of grossly under-estimating liabilities and grossly over-estimating funding projections.' Mr Patten claims that by 1997 public spending in Hong Kong as a percentage of GDP will be lower than it was in 1982 - the year Britain began handover negotiations with China. One Chinese banker says: 'Hong Kong will become less free; more like Singapore. In Mrs Wu's view: 'There is no absolute guarantee for Hong Kong that the 1984 Sino-British joint declaration will be met. 