Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen, says David Shulman, a Salomon Brothers economist who tracks real estate markets. The only reason Las Vegas has been booming is because it was on the periphery of Southern California. Exciting new projects and aggressive marketing could help the casinos goose their gambling numbers for a while -- barring a shooting war in the Mideast that plays havoc with fuel supplies. But a lengthy downturn could undo some of the image-building that Las Vegas underwent in the 1980s. Keith Schwer, of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's Center for Business and Economic Research. The recession in the early '80s spurred city leaders to mount a campaign to help Las Vegas break out of its dependency on the casino industry. In 1983, the Nevada state Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to Las Vegas. The Nevada Development Authority estimates that in the past two years only 3,103 new jobs were created by private sector firms either expanding or moving into Nevada. What's more, the national credit crunch has saved developers from building projects with no prospect of success. Huge new Disney-like facilities such as the 3,000-room Mirage and the 4,000-room Excalibur have forced the industry into a Darwinian struggle in which older, undercapitalized facilities are falling behind more modern competitors. Now Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. The Landmark hotel and casino shut its doors earlier this year; the Aladdin has filed for bankruptcy protection and is slated for auction. Add to that the Riviera's 1,600-room new wing, the Stardust's additional 1,200 rooms and dozens of other projects on the boards, and further fallout appears certain. It's what I call the rule of 500, says Alan Pomerantz, a real estate attorney with Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges in New York City. While the twin engines of Las Vegas's housing growth -- the casino industry and the spillover from the California market -- are beginning to sputter, housing starts continue to climb. Over the next year, builders have applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. Tight credit could keep as many as 30% from being built, says Glen Barton of the Meyers Group, a market research company based in Los Angeles. Economists cite another disturbing trend in Las Vegas's growth pattern: A full 8.1% of all payroll workers are in the construction sector, suggesting that there aren't enough indigenous industries to pick up the slack once things quiet down. He cashed in on the California real estate boom last year and moved to the serenity of the Nevada desert, where he lives in Del Webb Corp.'s Sun City, a planned community. With the California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't have made my deal today, he says. Some development companies are betting that any slowdown will be brief and are plunging ahead with ambitious projects. 