Among other things, it denounced the group's enemies and accused Israel of blocking the hostage-freeing process.; This is the statement of my captors, Anderson said after reading the kidnappers' statement. Mine is only that with my release, and I hope soon the release of the two Germans and all the Lebanese held in Israel, this tactic (hostage-taking) will never be used again.; The causes of this troubled episode are complex and difficult. He appeared in good physical condition.; At the White House, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. officials had no official word that reports of Anderson's release were true.; Anderson is the third American hostage freed in three days.; Eight other Westerners have been freed since August, when the United Nations launched negotiations involving a complex swap of Western hostages, hundreds of Arabs held by Israel, and information about missing Israeli servicemen.; We are immensely relieved that Terry Anderson's 6 1/2-year nightmare is over, said Louis D. Boccardi, Associated Press president and chief executive officer, following the initial reports of Anderson's release.; He has paid a terrible price for his commitment to stay with his story. They had flown to Damascus from their home in Cyprus.; Anderson's estranged wife, Mihoko, and their 15-year-old daughter Gabrielle, who live in Tokyo, declined comment.; The hostage saga has been moving toward an end for the United States amid changing political alignments in the Middle East after the Persian Gulf war and the end of the Cold War, moves by Iran to improve ties with Washington and skillful U.N. mediation.; In all, dozens of foreigners have been held hostage by Shiite groups in Lebanon since 1984. Of these, 11 have been reported or confirmed dead in captivity, 38 not including Anderson were released or escaped.; In exchange for the hostage releases, the kidnappers were reported by Iran's Tehran Radio this week to have been promised that they would not be pursued by the United States, Germany or any other country.; The hostage-holders have in the past few years been isolated by the desire of Syria and Iran to improve ties with the West.; Iran, long the chief backer of Lebanese kidnappers, and Syria had pressed amid shifting international alliances for the Western hostages' freedom.; Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani is seeking to end Iran's isolation and shed its image as an outlaw state that supports terrorism. Tehran has in the past linked hostage releases to the return of those assets.; The U.N. negotiations for the Western hostages are expected to ultimately involve freedom for 300 Arab prisoners held by Israel and its proxy militia in Lebanon. 