At the same time, it was disclosed that federal officials are probing the possibility that Exxon's 987-foot oil tanker was on autopilot shortly before it ran aground and that the electronic navigation aid confused the crew and contributed to the accident. After meeting personally with top executives from three of the seven oil companies that own the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. earlier in the week, Cowper asked them to respond by noon Thursday to his six-point safety plan. An aide to the governor described the companies' response as generally OK but said that Cowper may issue an order putting his plan into effect anyway. In one proposed draft of an order, continuation of routine operations at the Alyeska Marine Terminal near the town of Valdez is described as creating a substantial potential risk of additional oil spill because the consortium has failed to demonstrate it can manage a large spill with minimal environmental effects. Equipment must be dedicated to oil-spill cleanup only. -- The names of 12 oil spill-response team members who do nothing but respond to oil spills and who are available for such duty 24 hours a day. We want the oil industry to be ready for a spill of this magnitude if it happens tomorrow, Cowper said. The Alyeska companies' offer included the immediate start of random drug and alcohol testing on board ships and the continued use of two-tugboat escorts beyond Bligh Reef, the shallows into which the Exxon Valdez crashed March 24 before leaking 240,000 barrels of oil into ecologically sensitive Prince William Sound. Meanwhile, the chairman of Exxon Corp. told Congress Thursday that the third mate who was on the bridge of the Exxon Valdez when it ran aground has told company lawyers that he turned off the ship's automatic pilot in an effort to avoid the reef. Coast Guard spokesman Bruce Pimental in Valdez said investigators still are trying to determine if the autopilot actually was used the night of the accident and if it was, when it was turned off. Tom Kilpatrick of the California Maritime Academy, a former captain himself, said autopilots take full control of a ship once they are switched on. The nation's worst oil spill penetrated a national park Thursday, with an airborne spotter seeing an oil sheen up on some of the rocks and seeing staining on the rocks at Kenai Fjords National Park, park spokesman John Quinley said. Also on Thursday, the former captain of the Exxon Valdez, Joseph Hazelwood, left jail in New York after a judge slashed his bail from $500,000 to $25,000. 