Millions of gallons of crude oil that spilled when a tanker ran aground spread across a wildlife-rich stretch of ocean Saturday, and Alaska's chief environmental officer criticized cleanup efforts as too slow. "This situation, I think, was everyone's secret nightmare about what could happen with oil traffic in the sound," said Dennis Kelso, commissioner of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation. Some 240,000 barrels _ about 10,080,000 gallons _ of crude oil from Alaska's North Slope spilled early Friday when the 987-foot tanker Exxon Valdez ran hard aground on Bligh Reef, about 25 miles outside Valdez, where it had taken on a total cargo of 1.2 million barrels. Golob said cleanup equipment at the site was "grossly inadequate" but added that even under ideal circumstances cleanup efforts would not have significantly reduced the spill's impact. "The only way for this oil to ecape out to the sea is by traversing the entire length of Prince William Sound with all its islands, fjords and bays and channels. Efforts to begin pumping 200,000 gallons of oil off the Exxon Valdez onto another tanker, the Exxon Baton Rouge, were halted early Saturday when authorities noticed that oil appeared to leaking as the pumping operation proceeded. Eleven of 17 tanks that lie forward of the ship's masthead were ruptured in the accident, causing concern over removal of the oil, said Coast Guard Lt. "Whenever you start removing oil from a vessel this size it has to be done in a controlled manner," Wieliczkiewicz said. Wieliczkiewicz said a boom was placed around the Exxon Valdez and the Exxon Baton Rouge to help contain oil around the vessels. He also said four members of the Coast Guard's Pacific Strike Team from San Francisco, specially trained to deal with pollution and oil spills, arrived Saturday and were helping to rig pumps and assemble equipment needed to transfer oil to the Baton Rouge. Kelso said Alaska has a plan for oil spills that calls for action within five hours of a spill. The spill's effect on wildlife had not yet been assessed, but commercial fishermen who depend on the sound for a catch worth millions of dollars were outraged and said a key herring spawning area had been polluted. "Some birds have already died, and we are doing our best to try to save the fish by containing the oil to the area where it presently is and by trying to skim it." "We feel that this should have been the easiest oil spill in the world to clean up," said Riki Ott, chairman of the organization's habitat committee. North Slope crude oil is shipped 800 miles through the trans-Alaska oil pipeline from Prudhoe Bay south to Valdez for shipment aboard tankers to refineries outside Alaska. The Coast Guard said the Exxon Valdez struck the reef when it maneuvered outside normal tanker traffic lanes to avoid icebergs. There was no decision Saturday on whether to use chemicals to disperse the oil, but a test of the dispersal method was being conducted Saturday afternoon, as was a test to determine whether at least some of the crude oil could be burned. 15, 1976, grounding of the Argo Merchant tanker off the Nantucket shoals off Massachusetts, in which 7.6 million gallons of oil spilled, Golob said. The largest tanker spill in history resulted from the July 19, 1979, collision off Tobago of the supertankers Atlantic Empress and Aegean Captain, in which 300,000 tons _ more than 80 million gallons _ of oil was lost. 