Even the scientists came to cross-purposes in designing this little world. It is the professional nature of engineers and architects to keep the outside world out. Now suddenly they had to devise ways to keep the wild world in. Consider hummingbirds, great little pollinators. In short, this small world in some cases is too small for its own good. The oxygen is breathed in by humans and animals who breathe out carbon dioxide which is breathed in by the plants and used in photosynthesis which produces more oxygen. Biosphere II is built on a hill to take advantage of the natural proclivity of water. It then flows through the plains and grasslands of the savanna, down to the 25-foot deep ocean with its coral reef and then to the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up before it reaches the desert. The water-laden air then is drawn and climbs the mountain where natural cooling and condensing coils bring it down as rain and dew to feed the stream again. So Dr. Tony Burgess of the University of Arizona patterned the deserts after those of Baja California where the cactus and other plants have learned to live with ocean fog. "The marsh may have been one of the most fragile of the systems because of the life that lives in the mud," explains Kathy Dyhr. "We've got acid rain problems, dirty air problems, and we've got carbon dioxide increasing at an alarming rate. Plants and animals from those areas create the grasslands in Biosphere II. In all, some 3,800 species of plant and animal life are being invited to the party, and as in the original Eden, snakes. In these areas, where well-defined habitats change, scientists hope to learn how desert encroaches on more productive areas, what happens when fresh water turns brackish, what goes on when climates change. The idea of a biosphere, a living creation of nature with its own logic, its own rules, is not new. Probably the first to consider Earth and its environment as a biosphere was a Soviet scientist, V.I. Vernadsky in 1926. The idea was further developed by James Lovelock and Lynn Margolis, who postulated, after Darwin, that the environment helps mediate species variation. But they gave off oxygen, and in the process poisoned their own environment so they had to retreat into the mud. 