JEZERSKO, Yugoslavia -- On Wednesday, the Slovene soldiers manning this border post raised a new flag to mark Slovenia's independence from Yugoslavia. Yesterday, under artillery fire from the federal army, they waved a white flag and surrendered as Yugoslavia lurched closer to civil war. Less than two days after Slovenia and Croatia, two of Yugoslavia's six republics, unilaterally seceded from the nation, the federal government in Belgrade mobilized troops to regain control. Accompanied by tanks, jet fighters, helicopters, the regular troops, including paratroopers, battled Slovene militiamen across the breakaway republic. Local militiamen shot down a federal army helicopter as it flew over the capital, killing the pilot and co-pilot, the Associated Press reported. In Croatia, the army moved into areas where fighting erupted between Croats and minority Serbs, Yugoslavia's two largest nationalities and historic rivals. The first shooting between the federal army and the militias occurred here, in the mountains that mark the border with Austria. Throughout the morning, federal soldiers, some bearing bazookas, fanned out in the woods surrounding the Slovenia customs house. In Ljubljana, Milan Kucan, Slovenia's president, vowed in a television address that the republic's militia would respond with all methods to any aggression against his independent state. He called on Slovenes in the federal army to desert and join the republic's militia. But the poorly trained and equipped Slovene and Croatian militias, formed in the past several months, are no match for the 180,000-strong federal army. Mr. Baker and White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater had suggested to reporters Wednesday that the breakaway republics be granted greater autonomy and sovereignty within a united Yugoslavia. And on Tuesday night, after the two republics declared their independence, the federal parliament called on the army to intervene. The independence declarations came after months of unsuccessful negotiations among the leaders of the six republics over the post-Cold War shape of Yugoslavia. The Communist leadership of Serbia, Yugoslavia's largest republic, insists on strong central control from Belgrade, the capital of both Serbia and Yugoslavia. The nationalist governments of Slovenia and Croatia have been demanding a looser confederation of sovereign republics. They worry that the 600,000 Serbs living in Croatia (about 11% of that republic's population) will be discriminated against by the Croatian government. And they fear losing the economic support of Slovenia and Croatia, the two wealthiest republics. Together, Slovenia, with two million people, and Croatia, with five million, supply nearly two-thirds of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange and about half of the country's gross national product. 