United Nations Security Council; November 29, 1990;...; War Pros; Here are the major justifications for war that have been advanced by Bush or his supporters:; Counter aggression:; Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait has posed the first crisis of the post-Cold War world. If allowed to corner the world energy market, Saddam could threaten access to oil at reasonable prices.; Iraq's weaponry:; Iraq which has a stockpile of chemical weapons and is developing biological and nuclear weapons, could one day threaten the security of other oil-rich Arab countries and Israel if its arsenal is not destroyed now.; Military readiness:; U.S. forces, which will eventually total some 430,000, will not be able to maintain their readiness indefinitely. But even if war becomes necessary to force Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, it would be better to wage it after the sanctions have weakened the Iraqi army and air force, depriving them of spare parts and supplies.; Oil:; Most of the oil output from Iraq and Kuwait could be saved through tougher fuel conservation measures. Indeed, a war would make the price of oil skyrocket and Iraq could damage production in Saudi Arabia, which pumps more oil than Iraq and Kuwait combined.; U.S.-Arab relations:; Even if defeated, Saddam could emerge a hero to Arab masses. Some of Iraq's differences with Kuwait may be legitimate.; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; HOW THE WAR MIGHT UNFOLD; PHASE 1 (DAY ONE TO THREE) (includes small graphics); Objective: Destroy the country's air defense systems, air force installations and command centers through bombing raids, cutting off most of the Iraqi troops from Baghdad's central command. Those attacks would be followed immediately by strikes from the Stealth and F-111s from Saudi Arabia, as well as Navy A-6 fighter-bombers from ships in the gulf.; B-52s from Saudi Arabia and the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia would take out the layers of radar, surface-to-air missiles and air defense guns that protect Iraq's major cities and military and industrial Installations.; Air Force F-15s and F-16s from Saudi Arabia and F-14s from ships in the gulf would try to destroy Iraqi combat planes. Warplanes would attack Saddam at likely locations in Baghdad and throughout Iraq.; Obstacles: The key problem would be disabling Iraqi rocket launchers and array of anti-aircraft artillery.;...; PHASE 2 (DAY FOUR TO SIX); Objective: To eradicate Iraq's chemical sites and nuclear research facilities. Raids on Iraqi ground troops and an initial Infantry thrust would begin.; F-111s, based in Turkey, would destroy northern and western targets, while F-111s in Saudi Arabia would demolish southern targets.; Having rid the Iraqi skies of planes, aircraft would conduct low-level bombings of sites in both Kuwait and Iraq, where troops have dug in. With Iraq's ground forces stunned, Turkish and Syrian troops amassed on the northern border would invade.; Obstacles: Though most Iraqi air defenses and forces could be eliminated, many of the country's enormous supply of air defense guns would be functional and deadly. More likely to bog down the alliance is the static defense line the Iraqis have built up around Kuwait, which include concrete trenches; xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx; INTERNATIONAL FORCES IN THE GULF; Iraqi forces total 1,030,000. President Bush freezes Iraqi and Kuwaiti assets in the United States, bans trade with Iraq and bars Iraqi aircraft and ships from U.S. ports; 3: Arab League condemns invasion.; 6: U.N. Security Council authorizes economic sanctions against Iraq. Bush orders U.S. forces to Saudi Arabia in response to fears of an Iraqi invasion of that country.; 9: U.N. Security Council declares Iraq's annexation of Kuwait null and void. Saddam Hussein seals off Iraq's borders, trapping an estimated 550 Americans in Iraq and 3,000 in Kuwait.; 16: U.S. begins intercepting ships carrying goods to or from Iraq and Kuwait; 18: U.N. Security Council demands that Iraq free all foreigners.; 25: U.N. Security Council authorizes military action to halt maritime trade with Iraq.; 28: Iraq declares Kuwait its 19th province. U.S. expels 36 of 55 personnel from Iraqi Embassy in Washington; SEPTEMBER; 14: U.N. Security Council orders strict controls on humanitarian food aid to Iraq and Kuwait.; 25: U.N Security Council authorizes air embargo of Iraq.; OCTOBER; 1: House votes 380-29 in support of gulf deployment of U.S. troops.; 2: Senate votes 96-3 in favor of deployment.; 30: U.S. forces begin 10-day amphibious training exercise. Boiler pipe on USS Iwo Jima ruptures; 10 sailors killed.; NOVEMBER; 4: Pentagon announces call-up of major reserve combat units.; 8: Two days after fall elections, Bush orders near doubling of U.S. forces in the gulf to 400,000 to give the United States an adequate offensive option. ; 15: Saddam says he wants to negotiate with the United States but is unwilling to leave Kuwait first.; 19: Iraq adds 250,000 troops to the 430,000 already in or near Kuwait.; 29: U.N. Security Council votes 12-2 to authorize all means necessary to remove Iraq from Kuwait if it does not withdraw by Jan. 