Japanese investors, attracted by bargain properties and a dramatic increase in tourism here by their countrymen, have spent or committed $800 million in this entertainment capital and it's fueling an economic boom. "More than half the Japanese tourists who come to Los Angeles will also come to Las Vegas," said Yoshi Morichika, who is heading up a 1,274-acre golf and destination resort community for Japanese recreation and electronics giant Cosmo World. Jane Wilson, who handles international marketing for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, says Japanese tourism has been increasing at about 20 percent a year, and is expected to jump about 27 percent this year. The growing identity of Las Vegas in Japan, bargain real estate prices, a good economic climate and the attractiveness of the city are proving a magnet for Japanese investors. Japanese billionaire Masao Nangaku, who bought the Dunes Hotel and Casino two years ago for $157 million, is planning a 35-story high-rise office building and 300-room nongaming hotel in downtown Las Vegas. Snow is seeking a new site for the project because some landowners in downtown Las Vegas balked at selling their property. Japanese businessman Katsuki Manabe, who owns more than 30 arcades in Tokyo, has invested $30 million in the Park Hotel in downtown Las Vegas and millions more in his Nevada-based Sigma Games, a gaming equipment maker. However, one top Nevada gaming source, who asked not to be identified, said Yasuda's license was up for reconsideration earlier this year and would not have been continued "if he had not been able to meet his gaming obligations." The same source said the Japanese had taken over depressed properties and kept them open "and any stride forward is a positive sign." Sukeaki Izumi, who owns five hotels in Japan and Guam, recently purchased another closed property, the former Treasury Hotel, which he has renamed the San Remo. Izumi, who looked at properties in Hawaii but opted for Las Vegas because of the lower costs, has committed $30 million for the purchase and renovation of the hotel. Don Woodsmall, who serves with Morichika as project manager of the Cosmo World project, said Las Vegas was picked by the Japanese company, in part, "because the housing market is so strong here." Izumi, a millionaire industrialist, became involved in the hotel business six years ago when he bought a property in Osaka. When Nangaku bought the Dunes Hotel two years ago, his attorney predicted other Japanese businessmen would follow. 