LAST FRIDAY was the day of the annual agricultural show at Prieska in the northern part of South Africa's Cape Province. This is virtually desert country where a farmer needs several thousand hectares and a drought- and heat-resistant breed of sheep to make a reasonable living. They know him well; for not only is he a neighbouring farmer (his farm is just 170 km away by dirt road and that qualifies as 'neighbour' in this vast hot countryside) but he is also South Africa's minister of agriculture. Mr Kraai van Niekerk would probably have attended the show as a farmer in any case but last week he was campaigning for today's referendum on continued political reform in South Africa, and Prieska is the centre of his constituency. He had delivered a speech at another town that morning; now he was pressing the flesh of his fellow farmers before addressing a house meeting in the late afternoon and another in the local town hall in the evening. When I went with him to his 13,000-hectare holding, which has an annual rainfall of just 6 inches and where temperatures in the high 30s and low 40s centigrade are normal throughout the long summer, he explained that the secret of success on such dry bush veldt was to restrict stocking rates (he runs only one Merino wool sheep per 10 hectares) and to conserve what little moisture was available. It is, in fact, the arable farmers further east who are suffering most, as I had seen and heard for myself a few days earlier, and Mr van Niekerk has already set up committees of bankers, extension officers and local farmers' representatives, to try to find ways to avoid many of them going bankrupt. Critics of the rescue attempts allege that most of the farmers who are in trouble are financially illiterate and that they are reaping the results of unbridled expenditure and expansion in the boom years of the 1970s and 1980s. Mr van Niekerk concedes that such suggestions contain an element of truth But the drought is also an established fact and there are socio-economic as well as agricultural reasons why as many farmers as possible should be saved. To allow vast numbers of farms to go out of business at a time when there is little enthusiasm, even among successful farmers for expansion, would put tens of thousands of black farm labourers out of work. Since the repeal of the Group Areas Act two years ago there has already been enormous growth in the squatter camps around big towns. It appears likely, therefore, that it will be necessary for South Africa to import up to 5m tonnes of maize during the coming months. But back in the Orange Free State, last week, farmers were worrying about the continued absence of any rain to provide moisture to germinate wheat seeds when they were due to be planted in a few weeks time. But in the meantime there is little doubt that the drought, the cost of aid to farmers and the planned expenditure on food imports will have figured in the South African budget calculations due to be announced tomorrow. 