The epidemic of bovine spongiform encephalopathy or 'mad cow' disease - which has killed more than 100,000 animals in the UK - is causing a new wave of public concern. New cases are still running at almost 1,000 a week and last month a second dairy farmer died of Creutzfeld-Jacob Disease, a brain disorder similar to BSE. Richard Lacey, a microbiology professor at Leeds University and the leading critic of government policy on BSE, said the deaths this year of two farmers whose herds had suffered from mad cow disease could not be put down to chance. Robert Will of Edinburgh's Western General Hospital, who has been monitoring CJD in the UK since 1990 on behalf of the health department, calculated that there was only a five per cent probability of even a single case occurring by chance among dairy farmers with BSE-affected herds. One argument put forward by the health department is that CJD has such a long incubation period - typically 10 to 20 years - that clinical symptoms would not yet have appeared, even if BSE had triggered any cases of CJD. 'Since the illness of the cows (in Templeman's herd) and the patient occurred within months of each other, the animals and the patient had presumably incubated disease in parallel for some years,' the health department said. 'It is most unlikely therefore that there is any direct link between the cases of BSE and the occurrence of disease in the patient.' The epidemic continues to defy the ministry of agriculture's predictions that it is about to wane; so far this year there have been 26,695 reported cases, compared with 25,898 to the same date last year. Scientists trying to understand the epidemic face an unusual problem: BSE, scrapie and CJD are caused by a bizarre, infectious agent, the prion, which does not follow the normal rules of microbiology. Once in place in the victim's brain, it catalyses what John Collinge, a prion researcher at St Mary's Hospital Medical School, London, called a slow 'chemical chain reaction', converting the normal protein into its own abnormal form. Most independent experts maintain that no human being - dairy farmer or beef eater - is likely to be exposed to BSE in sufficient quantities to develop brain disease. 