Yesterday's federal indictment against Mr. Keating, who was convicted just last week on narrower state securities fraud charges, centered on five separate racketeering schemes. At the crux of the government's case was an alleged system of land swaps that created phony profits for American Continental and its Lincoln Savings and Loan Association unit. The government also charged that Mr. Keating and the others siphoned off $975,000 from the company for their personal use, even as American Continental prepared in 1989 to seek bankruptcy-law protection. Prosecutors charged that at American Continental, the purpose of the pattern of racketeering activity was to obtain money from and through Lincoln, for the use and benefit of the {defendants} and certain of their associates and family members. Additionally, federal prosecutors accused Mr. Keating and the others of deceiving buyers of about $200 million of American Continental bonds. The defendants conveyed flatly inconsistent stories about ACC's financial prospects to purchasers of senior and subordinated notes, the indictment said. Under the scheme described by the government, the defendants tried to convince buyers of senior notes to sell them back to the company at a discount, telling them that American Continental was financially troubled even as they assured buyers of the junior debt that the company was sound. Others indicted yesterday on the federal charges were Judy Wischer, former American Continental president; Andrew Ligget, its former chief financial officer; Robert M. Wurzelbacher, Mr. Keating's son-in-law and former company senior vice president, and Charles H. Keating III, Mr. Keating's son and former company executive vice president. Lincoln, once the main subsidiary of Mr. Keating's Phoenix, Ariz.-based company, was seized by federal regulators in April 1989, a day after American Continental filed for bankruptcy-court protection. Talking to reporters outside the courtroom, Mr. Keating's attorney, Mr. Neal, said: The indictment is an effort to retroactively criminalize a whole host of investment transactions that were legitimate when made. Sham profits from all the alleged sales triggered some $32 million in cash payments from Lincoln to its parent under a tax-sharing agreement that required Lincoln to make payments to its parent based on a percentage of the thrift's profits, the indictment said. By making these premature payments, Lincoln in effect paid ACC unauthorized dividends in the form of interest-free loans, to the detriment of Lincoln and the benefit of American Continental, the indictment said. In the separate SEC civil case against Mr. Keating, which also names his five co-defendants in the criminal case and four others, the agency charged Mr. Keating with insider trading in connection with the sale of $7.5 million in American Continental common stock. The suit in Los Angeles also charged Mr. Paul, the former CenTrust chairman, with helping American Continental improperly report a gain of $24.6 million on the sale of securities during the second quarter of 1988. 