State statutes that bar first-time candidates from running for Congress have been held to add to the qualifications set forth in the Constitution and have been invalidated. Three U.S. House members, led by Democrat Larry Smith, have filed briefs asking the court to rule state term limits unconstitutional. The court said the state's strong interests in protecting against an entrenched, dynastic legislative bureaucracy outweighed objections that term limits restrict voter choice at the ballot box. But the court's decision affected only term limits on state officials; federal officeholders weren't included in California's limits. Nevertheless, the California decision demolished many of the legal arguments made by incumbents. They argued that voters were denied the right to be represented by the same legislator indefinitely, and that term limits discriminated against incumbents and denied them their right to equal protection of the laws. Term limitations do not restrict the right to vote for a candidate because of his or her ideology or party. Fashing, the U.S. Supreme Court determined that a particular candidate has no fundamental right to ballot access or to run for office. Federal courts have upheld many state restrictions on who may qualify for ballot access. The Supreme Court has found that clause violated only in those cases where ballot access restrictions discriminate against the poor and against new, small or independent party candidates. Nor do they limit an incumbent who leaves office for a period of time (six years in Washington state) from running again. Brown, the Supreme Court upheld a California law that prohibited an independent candidate from running for Congress because he had changed his registration to Independent less than 11 months before the election. As recently as June of this year, the Supreme Court again reiterated that the states have reserved to themselves, via the Tenth Amendment, the power to regulate elections. Should the court rule against term limits by the states, numerous other ballot access restrictions will likely be passed that have many of the same effects as term limits. States could allow an incumbent who has served a set number of years in the same office to run again, but only as a write-in candidate. Two sitting U.S. House Members won their first terms as write-in candidates. Each candidate would have to answer the question: Will you adhere to a -- year term limit? The answer would appear on the ballot so voters would know a candidate's views on term limits. 