Exxon crews Tuesday finished pumping the remaining crude oil out of the tanker Exxon Valdez in preparation for refloating and removing the source of the nation's worst-ever oil spill. The fugitive captain of the Exxon Valdez sent signals he was ready to surrender to face criminal charges of operating the vessel while drunk. A boom wasn't placed around the vessel for 11 hours because it wasn't available in Valdez, Exxon officials have said. Iarossi also said Exxon has changed its policy because of the spill and now requires crews to be aboard ship, where drinking is prohibited, four hours before sailing. Another 42 million gallons of oily waste water remained aboard the Valdez, which spilled more than 10 million gallons of crude into Prince William Sound when it struck a reef March 24. Canadian authorities also asked Exxon for assurances there will be no damage to the British Columbia coast if the tanker is towed to Oregon, and the mayor of Valdez said the ship was not welcome back in the port where it took on the load of crude. The family of the fired Exxon Valdez captain, Joseph Hazelwood, said the skipper wants to surrender but is awaiting advice from his attorney, according to Lt. Hazelwood, 42, is accused operating the ship while under the influence of alcohol, reckless endangerment and negligent discharge of oil. Of about three dozen oil-soaked otters rescued following the spill, about one-third have died, Alaska Department of Fish and Game spokesman Jon Lyman said. An effort at Sawmill Bay, 11 miles west of Valdez, to keep oil away from a hatchery where 2 million salmon are waiting to be released to the sea appeared to be failing. Frank Murkowski, a champion of oil exploration in Alaska, asked that plans for drilling in Bristol Bay, the state's richest fishing grounds, be set aside until the industry can demonstrate that it can respond effectively to spills. "The Exxon Valdez accident has taught us that simply having a plan is not sufficient," the Alaska Republican said. Meanwhile, a multimillion-dollar class-action lawsuit was filed Monday in federal court in California against Exxon Corp., charging that the spill has led to gas prices of 10 to 15 cents more a gallon for California drivers. 