The Jwaneng mine, on the fringes of the Kalahari desert in Botswana, is known as 'a gem in the world of gems' because it almost certainly is the richest diamond mine in the world - at least in terms of the value of the stones it yields. All this goes to show that De Beers, the South African group that dominates world trade in rough (uncut) diamonds, still has complete faith in its ability to maintain stability in the diamond market despite short-term difficulties such as those the company is experiencing with Russia. The South African group believes that its control of at least 50 per cent of world diamond production gives it a powerful base from which to negotiate with the other producers who have marketing contracts with De Beers' Central Selling Organisation, In Botswana De Beers controls half of Debswana, the company that owns the Jwaneng mine, with the government owning the rest. It, and the country's two other (smaller) diamond mines, between them account for 50 per cent of the government's revenue and 40 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. Last year the mine treated 5.8m tonnes of ore which yielded 8.546m carats of diamonds, well below the 1992 output when the 5.77m tonnes treated gave up more than 9m carats. Mr Loz Shaw, chief geologist, says drilling down to 600 metres shows there are still plenty of diamonds at that depth and so the pit will go down at least that far. Mr Derrick Moore, the general manager, says this indicates mining in the open pit will last another 35 years - 'and then we might go underground'. If experience at De Beers' wholly-owned Finsch mine in South Africa is anything to go by, planning the underground development at Jwaneng might already have started. Mr Webb says the objective is to mine down to a depth of 830 metres, at which point there are not enough diamonds left in the ground to make recovery viable. Finsch - named after the discoverers, Messrs Fincham and Schwabel, who stumbled across the kimberlite pipe containing the diamonds when actually they were looking for asbestos - is one of the victims of the present turmoil in the diamond market caused mainly by uncertainties about Russian exports. Last year Finsch mined 2.68m tonnes and recovered 2m carats of diamonds compared with 4.7m tonnes mined and 3.446m carats in 1992. 