U.S. military helicopters on Sunday located the wreckage of a plane that crashed last Monday with Texas congressman Mickey Leland and 15 others aboard. U.S. rescue and recovery teams said that the plane hit a mountain about 4,300 feet above sea level, having missed clearing the peak by about 300 feet. The crash site is about 75 miles east of the Fugnido refugee camp that Leland was flying to visit when the plane vanished in heavy weather last Monday. Gary L. Ackerman (D-N.Y.), a colleague of Leland's who has accompanied search crews for the last two days and was aboard the helicopter that first spotted the wreckage Sunday. The 44-year-old Leland, a Democrat, was making his sixth tour of refugee camps along the Ethiopia-Sudan border as chairman of the House Select Committee on Hunger, a panel he had helped to establish five years ago. Ivan Tillen, a New York businessman and friend of Leland's; Robert Woods, a political and economic officer at the American Embassy in Addis Ababa; Gladys Gilbert, a special projects officer for the mission of the U.S. Agency for International Development attached to the embassy; Thomas Worrick, the acting AID representative in Ethiopia, and Worrick's wife, Roberta. 7 Ethiopians Killed Also on board were Debebe Agonofer, an Ethiopian agricultural economist with the AID mission, and six other Ethiopians, including the plane's crew of three. Reaction to the news in the United States was one of sadness coupled with an outpouring of praise for Leland's work. Dellums spoke of his staff aide who lost her life in the crash as a close personal friend for over a decade and said that everyone on the plane shared a common commitment to helping the poor, the starving and the dispossessed in that war-torn, drought-stricken land. Discovery of the crash site ended what had been one of the most extensive American search and rescue operations ever conducted in a Third World country. By Sunday, 18 aircraft, including four American helicopters, two American C-130 airplanes and 12 Ethiopian aircraft, were involved in the search. Record arrived in Addis Ababa about 10 minutes after the first reports were received of the sighting of the crash site. Discovery of the crash site came at about 1:15 p.m. local time Sunday. There, the crew came upon a Roman Catholic missionary who told them that he had heard reports from local villagers that a plane had been heard nearby last week. 'Mostly Rocks and Brush' Crew members described the site as mostly rocks and brush and indicated that the pilot of Leland's plane may have been trying to escape bad weather on Monday by following the pathway of a river flowing through a valley. Alan Wheat (D-Mo.), who with Ackerman had been flying with search crews for the last two days, said he telephoned House Speaker Thomas S. Foley (D-Wash.) from Addis Ababa soon after the discovery was made. Area Had Been Covered The area of the site had apparently been searched within the first two days after the crash by American aircraft using electronic devices in an attempt to detect an emergency signal from the downed craft. Wheat, who was among those who had pressed Defense Department officials for the deployment of more aircraft in the search, said after the discovery Sunday: We could have brought every plane in the world that we have, and it would not have made a difference. President Bush, in his Sunday statement, said: I have known, admired and worked with Mickey Leland for many years. Baker also thanked Ethiopia, a Soviet-allied country with which Washington has had strained relations for several years, for its outstanding support in the search for Leland's party. Bush offered U.S. help to the Ethiopian government for its investigation into the crash of the plane. Leland was a former Houston pharmacist who called the fight against hunger my passion. 