Politically sophisticated trade lobbyists, like Mr Harry Freeman, executive director of the MTN Coalition, believes the Democrats will use Nafta as a weapon against the president, arguing that he wants to divert jobs to Mexico. The anti-Nafta Citizens' Trade Campaign is bringing 'Nafta Claus' to the Capitol to distribute gifts in a parody of the president's effort to sell Nafta to a reluctant Congress. Claiming that a more competitive Mexico, with free access to the US and Canada, will capture markets which Caribbean basin countries have developed under current trade agreements, the region has asked for 'parity' with Mexico in exporting to Nafta signatories. Without improved access to the US and Canadian markets to counter Mexico's benefits under Nafta, the Caribbean basin countries will have to continue depending on their current trade preference agreements with the US and Canada. Fifteen Hispanic organisations, including La Raza, propose to set up a trilateral North American Development Bank to direct resources to regions of the US, Mexico and Canada most affected negatively by Nafta. The site of the signing ceremony in Sacramento sent a warning to the city's congressman, Mr Bob Matsui, one of the leading proponents of Nafta in the US House of Representatives. Pro-Nafta congressmen and senators have been morosely admitting the opposition's success in framing the debate against Nafta as a pact which would cost jobs. Mr Daley accepted the Nafta position after being passed over for a cabinet position and turning down an offer to be Mr Clinton's chief negotiator at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva. She points out that Congressman Kweisi Mfume from Maryland, leader of the 38-strong black Democratic caucus previously so loyal to Mr Clinton, is helping Mr Bonior garner votes against Nafta, and that only one black congressman has come out in favour. The organisers said they were sending a message to Virginia's three wavering congressmen that a 'yes' vote on Nafta in the House on Wednesday would be 'remembered in November'. By coincidence, the day after next week's Nafta vote, Clinton will be in Seattle for a trade conference with leaders of Asian Pacific Nations. Although the President inherited the trade pact from his Republican predecessor, he has invested a lot of his own political capital in getting Nafta through Congress. 