Mekonnen, a police lieutenant from Addis Ababa, made a furious rush with a mile to go, passing Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania and winning Monday's Boston Marathon in 2 hours 9 minutes 6 seconds. In an emotional news conference afterward, Samuelson, who won the first women's Olympic marathon in 1984 at Los Angeles, tearfully conceded that she might have run her last marathon for some time. Samuelson, who holds the U.S. marathon record, said she will significantly decrease her training mileage and probably run shorter races. Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr. Kelley: It's incomprehensible that a man his age is doing what he's doing. A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year -- as he has been for 15 years. Of course, Mr. Kelley -- not to be confused with the other John Kelley, who won the Boston Marathon in 1957 -- isn't the runner he was in 1935 when he won the race, in 2 hours, 32 minutes, 7 seconds. Mr. Kelley well knows the jagged course from Hopkinton to downtown Boston: The first challenge comes five miles into the race, where a set of little hills can get a psyched runner to waste energy charging up the slopes. Wilson and Yanmin won both the Long Beach Marathon and the Pacific Rim race, for total prize money of $9,500 each. Since then, however, Swai has won two races, the Coronado Half Marathon in July, which he finished in 1:04.50, and the Goodwill Games 10-kilometer run last month in Seattle. The runners Swai fears most include: Carlos Ayala of Mexico City, who finished fourth in this year's Grandma's Marathon Jose Luis Chuela of Mexico, who was second in this race in 1988 (1:03:42) Sam Sitonik of Kenya, who placed fourth in the 1987 America's Finest City Half Marathon at 1:06:01 and Sammy Rotich, a Kenyan who ran a personal best 1:01:55 in 1987. Kim Jones of Spokane, Wash., finished second among the women for the second consecutive year, five seconds behind Panfil to make it the closest finish in the race's 21-year history. Two hours, 16 minutes and 12 seconds later, in only his second marathon -- his first was this event last year when he finished eighth -- Beatriz Martinez crossed the finish line 39 seconds ahead of South African Mark Plaatjes, now of Lake Forest, Ill. It was the first marathon Rollins has completed this year, after dropping out of the New York City Marathon four weeks ago in mile 18 because of stomach cramps. Castillo was entered in the accompanying half marathon, but he and Pedro Casillas missed that races' turn at just over the mile mark and mistakenly followed the longer route. Marathon Notes Marie Rollins' time is the fourth best for women in San Diego-area marathon history and breaks Chantal Best's 1988 race record of 2:42:22. In addition to air fare and hotel, runners are guaranteed spots in restricted entry races such as the London Marathon. 