Police captured the top military leader of the Shining Path, a Maoist rebel group whose eight-year guerrilla war has taken more than 10,000 lives in Peru, officials said Monday. Guzman, Morote and other Shining Path leaders went underground in the late 1970s before launching their guerrilla war, which has claimed more than 10,000 lives. While Washington has been quick to trumpet links between guerrillas and drug trafficking in other countries, U.S. officials downplay the connection between drugs and the Shining Path. The commander of the anti-drug police, Gen. Juan Zarate, says there are few guerrillas in the Upper Huallaga and denies that an alliance exists between the drug traffickers and the Shining Path. The Shining Path went to war in 1980, on the same day Peru was holding general elections after 12 years of a military dictatorship. The Rodrigo Franco Command, which has vowed to kill a Shining Path member or sympathizer for every person slain by guerrillas, issued the threat against District Attorney Carlos Escobar on Monday, according to his office in Andean city of Ayacucho. The Maoist Shining Path guerrillas who dominate Peru's Upper Huallaga River Valley have brought their own law and order to a cocaine-corrupted, violence-ridden region. But here in the jungle-cloaked Upper Huallaga Valley, the world's largest source of coca leaf, the Shining Path _ Sendero Luminoso in Spanish _ enjoys the support of tens of thousands of farmers because the rebels protect them against a U.S.-funded coca eradication program. The president, who leaves office July 28, said the newly formed People's Defense Revolutionary Movement, is the urban, metropolitan organ of the Shining Path. (Note 3) For example, in his presentation of the video recording of Guzman's first call for peace talks, Fujimori claimed that the Shining Path political leadership has tacitly admitted that the Peruvian state has totally recovered the initiative in confronting the Shining Path (Lima Radio and TV, 4 October 1993). During the meeting, the Shining Path Central Committee decided to continue the people's war and to consider those members who uphold the peace accord with the government to be removed from the party by their own free will. This was selected from the document entitled To Conquer Power in the Midst of the People's War that was drafted during the Second Shining Path Central Committee Plenum, when Guzman was still free. Meanwhile, the Central Committee has acknowledged Gonzalo's Thoughts as the ideological basis for the people's war, Guzman Reinoso's leadership and his inability to lead the party and the war from prison, and has decided to reorganize the Shining Path machine to launch a new stage of the war without Guzman. 