Higher wages... for some will mean jobs lost for those workers who are trying hardest to break into the labor market, warns GOP Sen. For instance, a 1970 report ordered by then-Labor Secretary George Shultz found that general business conditions are the main influence on teen-age employment, with only hints of an adverse effect from the minimum wage showing up in the data. Opponents of raising the minimum wage insist that past increases have had a substantial effect in both layoffs and disemployment -- workers not hired who otherwise would have been. Furthermore, the District of Columbia, like many states, has a subminimum, or training wage, of $3.35 for employees in some job categories who are under age 18. Prospects for enactment of the first minimum-wage increase in eight years have improved sharply in recent days, sparked by Vice President George Bush's call for a boost in the wage floor. Wage-increase bills were languishing on Capitol Hill only two weeks ago, with many members of Congress reluctant to support a wage rise in the face of heavy small-business lobbying and arguments that the increase would mean job losses. Sponsors of the House bill, while disputing GOP projections of massive job losses, added a provision allowing a sub-minimum wage to be paid to new hires for two months provided it was their first job. Its unemployment rate rose from 11.3 per cent to 23.4 per cent between 1974 and 1983, of which over one third is estimated to be a direct result of the rise in the minimum wage. What's less certain is the shape the bill will finally take, and whether a veto is inevitable from a president who once said the minimum wage has caused more misery and unemployment than anything else since the Great Depression. The Reagan administration may be willing to relax its opposition to an increase in the minimum wage if Congress agrees to dilute the legislation significantly, Labor Secretary William Brock indicated. In yesterday's interview, the secretary suggested the administration might accept a higher minimum wage, though perhaps smaller than in the pending bill, if Congress makes certain changes in the measure. Most House Labor Committee members oppose any youth subminimum wage, the small-business exemption has foundered in the past, and wage-indexing must stay in the bill, a staff official for the panel said. Yet organized labor, which constantly asserts its interest in job creation, has made a strong pitch for the Kennedy-Hawkins Minimum Wage Restoration Act, a bill that would head the minimum wage upward once more. Worst news of all, Labor Secretary William Brock appears ready to compromise away President Reagan's soundly based opposition to the minimum wage. 