A lie detector that measures brain waves would be more accurate than polygraphs, which measure bodily functions, says its developer. The bill to ban most polygraph tests was widely backed by civil-liberties groups, labor unions and Labor Secretary Ann McLaughlin, as well as by such organizations as the AMA and the American Psychological Association. After years of debate, court rulings and federal legislation, use of the polygraph has dropped sharply, despite supporters who insist the test is a good indicator of whether someone is telling a lie. Keefe testified about giving polygraph tests to three Pan Am baggage handlers in Frankfurt, West Germany, during his appearance before the grand jury, said a source familiar with the case. Polygraph tests cannot be admitted in court, but the questions Keefe asked the baggage handlers and their responses may provide investigators with new leads in the case. A state Court of Appeal ruled Monday that cities and counties may require applicants for jobs as police officers to submit to polygraph tests about their character and background. Nevertheless, Rothstein said, polygraphs are 60 to 80 percent reliable, depending upon whom you ask, and Peter Tague, also a Georgetown criminal law specialist, said that Prof. Hill's willingness to take a polygraph test tends to support her credibility. The public usually hears about polygraph tests when somebody famous takes one, often in situations where it's one person's word against another. It lost ground in 1989, when the federal Employee Polygraph Protection Act took effect, outlawing pre-employment polygraph testing in most private industry. 90 percent agreement A panel of lawyers reviewed evidence (other than the polygraph test) against 400 criminal suspects, then concluded whether the suspects were innocent or guilty. Banning polygraph use by private employers would affect about 98% of its use, the AFL-CIO's Mr. Dubester said, while allowing government intelligence and other agencies to continue testing of employees in especially sensitive work. 