Mr Clinton has stressed his support for the Fed's independence Mr Greenspan has promised to co-operate with the White House and has publicly praised the president's deficit-cutting plan. But if Mr Greenspan wants to be remembered as the first Fed chairman for a generation to secure something approaching price stability, he may need to raise short-term interest rates substantially in coming years, certainly by 1995. Last week, President Bill Clinton summoned Mr Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, to the White House for talks on economic policy. If, instead of nudging rates higher, Mr Greenspan quickly raised rates to a 'neutral' level consistent with sustainable non-inflationary growth, say 4-5 per cent, markets might regain their composure. Indeed, unlike his predecessor, the prickly and standoffish Paul A. Volcker, Greenspan has developed close ties to the White House and has quietly become a key economic adviser to President Bush. Brady and White House Chief of Staff John Sununu criticized him repeatedly for refusing to push interest rates down -- a move Greenspan insisted might send interest rates even higher by making financial markets fearful that the Fed was abandoning the inflation fight. Observers note that Greenspan, who ran his own economic consulting firm before coming to the Fed to replace Volcker in 1987, is ideally suited to the role of gray eminence -- of a senior behind-the-scenes adviser. Bush and his advisers have often criticized Greenspan's Fed and have implied that the central bank waited too long to cut interest rates at the start of the recession last summer. But few economists lay the recession at the Fed's doorstep and, Stone says, The level of satisfaction (with Greenspan) is certainly sufficient to keep him on. By picking Mr. Greenspan, who headed the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ford, Mr. Reagan signed on a man who comes as close as anyone to enjoying Mr. Volcker's credibility in financial markets. At the Fed, a senior official says that despite disappointment over Mr. Volcker's pending departure, I think the reaction is that Greenspan is probably the best choice outside the Federal Reserve System that could have been made. More recently, Mr. Greenspan has been an outspoken backer of Mr. Volcker, often echoing the Fed chief's warnings about the dangers of a precipitous decline in the dollar. But although Mr. Volcker and his successor see eye to eye on most issues, some of Mr. Greenspan's recent statements have diverged from the Fed chief's. On monetary policy generally, Mr. Greenspan clearly shares Mr. Volcker's pragmatic approach of tightening and easing credit based on a variety of factors -- the money supply, interest rates, foreign-exchange rates and other indicators of growth and inflation. One problem that Mr. Greenspan will face will be to unite the other Fed governors around his policies. Richard Hoey, a Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. economist who frequently conducts polls about the Fed, says Mr. Greenspan has always been No. Also in Mr. Greenspan's favor is the fact that Congress is inclined to give the Fed wide latitude, thanks to the inflation-fighting success of the retiring chairman, Paul Volcker. He may even seek the sort of ties former Fed chairman Arthur Burns had with the Ford administration back in the mid-1970's, when Mr. Greenspan was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. As chairman of the Fed, Mr. Greenspan will be in a position to influence monetary policy and affect the economy's performance over the next four years. 