With trade barriers among the 12 EEC countries set to fall in 1992, Colin Kirkland, technical director of Eurotunnel's on the British side, says the tunnel will be completed this time. Britain becomes branch line of Europe, a Guardian newspaper headline declared after the government announced June 14 that it would not fund a high-speed rail link between London and the British end of the tunnel. Giant boring machines are digging three tunnels toward each other from Folkestone, England and Calais, France, with the first underground meeting expected in November in the service tunnel between the rail tunnels. Britain and France were linked beneath the English Channel on Tuesday when workers used a two-inch probe to connect two halves of a 31-mile undersea rail tunnel, officials reported. Management sources at TransManche Link, the construction consortium building the Chunnel - the Channel Tunnel - confirmed the historic linkup occurred about 8:25 p.m. when British workers sent the probe through to French colleagues. A work slowdown since last week by militant tunnelers demanding more pay on the French side appeared likely Monday to stall the linkup until the weekend or beyond. Officials estimate the tunnel may carry 28 million passengers in the first year of operation, although Eurotunnel doesn't expect a profit until the end of the century. A study released last Friday in Paris by transportation experts said the tunnel's completion will aggravate traffic congestion in a wide area of continental Europe. The tunnels were joined 13{ miles southeast of Folkestone, England, the British terminus near Dover, and 10 miles northwest of Sangatte, near Calais. Prices have stopped falling in northern France and hopes are high that the tunnel, motorways and new railways will resuscitate the region. Outside Le Touquet, A House in France offers a chateau complete with fortification wall and tunnels for FFr1.3m. The official opening of the Channel Tunnel later this year promises to help revitalise the north-west regions of Belgium, even though the country's biggest ports will suffer a loss of traffic. Using jackhammers, Graham Fagg, 42, of Dover, England, and Philippe Cozette, 37, of Calais, France, knocked out the last foot of chalk to link up the British and French sides of the tunnel -- which has been dubbed a chunnel. Michel Delebarre and Malcolm Rifkind, the French and British transportation ministers, rode in small service trains down the maintenance tunnel to witness the handshake. In the same week that the French government revealed its plans to spend 190 billion francs ($34 billion) on expanding its high-speed rail network, the prime minister announced that there will be no government subsidy for a fast train between London and the tunnel, in effect shelving plans for a much discussed new 70-mile link between London and Folkestone. 