bradley perrett canberra 1996-08-21 australia's new conservative government on wednesday began selling its tough deficit-slashing budget , which sparked violent protests by aborigines , unions , students and welfare groups even before it was announced. two days of anti-budget street protests preceded spending cuts officially unveiled by treasurer peter costello. _ this is a once-in-a-decade chance to get it right , _ costello said in a radio interview. _ if we do_ n't do it now , australia is going to be in deficit and debt into the next century. _ tuesday's budget sliced a$4 billion ( us$3.1 billion ) from the budget for the current fiscal year , to june 1997 , as a first instalment towards an underlying surplus ( excluding asset sales ) by 1998/99. as the protesters had feared , costello revealed a cut to the government's aboriginal welfare commission among the hundreds of measures implemented to claw back the deficit. programmes for the unemployed were heavily cut , and costello fended off criticism that the government , driven by conservative ideology , had targetted the poor. _ there_ 'll be a_lot_of people quaffing their wines down at pitt street who wo_ n't like it , _ he said , referring to sydney's central business district. labor , beaten in the march 2 federal election and which the government blames for australia's economic woes after 13 years of labor rule , said the government was hurting the weakest groups in society and was short on detail. the head of the australian council of trade unions , jennie george , told reporters the budget hurt the weakest groups in the community and did nothing to solve australia's high unemployment rate $- now 8.5 percent. _ the scenario for unemployment is very bleak indeed , _ george said. the cuts , many of which had been disclosed ahead_of the budget , have sparked protests around the country and triggered rioting during a protest by unionists , students , aborigines and welfare groups at parliament house on monday. 