link: [comments: s1 provides the referent for he.] _ domestic buyers in the market are not that many and our hope was that if we float say 10 to 20 percent of a certain number of big state companies on the stock exchange we will find institutional investors from the west , _ marinov said. he told reuters in an interview the cash generated by such investment would go back into the companies instead_of into the state budget as with direct privatisations. _ at the moment bulgaria is ideal for foreign investors in some ways because here you can buy low and sell high because_of the general depression we are in at the moment , _ marinov said. he put their combined pre-tax profit at 90.64 billion levs under the bulgarian accounting system which takes no account of inflation , while the loss-makers made a 59.737 billion loss. _ if we did_ n't have the loss-makers , the state companies as a whole would be making something like half a billion dollars profit $... this would be a significant boost to the economy , though if those companies were private they would make three or four times more profit , _ he said. marinov said floating the companies would make the privatisation process more transparent as potential investors would have open access to financial data. _ it_ 's a half-way house to attracting foreign investment but also it_ 's an end in itself to create a stock-owner society. _ bulgaria's mass privatisation programme has issued eight billion levs of stock but at present there is no clear procedure for trading it. the former socialist government officially abolished direct subsidies to loss-makers but tried to keep the firms going through payouts from state-owned commercial banks , several of which are now in the middle of bankruptcy proceedings. _ this was a very complicated scheme of subsidising the loss-making enterprises , which did no good to the economy as a whole and to the enterprises as well , _ marinov said. he said companies would be internally liquidated or restructured , or if their debts were too heavy , bankruptcy would be sought through the courts , though this would take longer because bankruptcy provisions were only recently added to bulgaria's commercial law and judges were inexperienced. rather_than the lists of companies for liquidation drawn up with the previous government , the interim cabinet agreed with the imf and world bank to eliminate a proportion of losses , a more flexible approach if individual cases are held up. 