eiichiro tokumoto tokyo 1997-03-31 east asian grain buyers are largely holding back on their corn purchases ahead_of key impending u.s. agricultural data , dealers said on monday. in south korea , dealers said local buyers were a_little leery of the usda report and were largely staying on the sidelines having already covered most of their needs up_to august shipment. _ most of our clients will take some break since they have covered their requirements for far forward shipments to august , _ a trader with a foreign grain trading house in seoul said. elsewhere in the east asian grains market , the philippines is to tender , on a a snap basis , for 40,000 tonnes of corn for mid-april shipment and local traders confirmed the purchase by two mills of 100,000 tonnes of canadian wheat. the taiwanese feed market remains battered by the effects of the outbreak of foot and mouth disease which has ravaged the pork industry and is likely to cause a sharp drop in demand. _ feed producers are still working on reducing their corn and soybean inventories , _ taiwan formosa oilseed manager steven kuo told reuters. regional demand for chinese corn though , remains generally good on attractive prices relative to u.s.-origin and south korean buyers dismissed talk of imports from china being pinched by logistical log jams. _ we have not seen any problem with chinese corn deliveries to our clients , _ one trader in seoul said. a trader with south korea's national livestock cooperatives federation ( nlcf ) also dismissed the market talk. _ we have heard ( of ) the rumour but there is no problem. _ since january , south korean buyers have bought at_least 1.022 million tonnes of chinese corn through tenders and private negotiations , traders said. but other japanese buyers are holding off believing chinese offers are still too high. _ chinese corn is not cheap enough , with freight costs around $20 ( a tonne ) china is just trying to export corn to solve their storage problem in corn growing regions , not to earn hard currency , _ another corn trader in tokyo said. 