timothy heritage moscow 1997-03-31 president boris yeltsin gave the green light on monday to a draft treaty that would push russia into a union with belarus , despite liberals' fears that he might be signing away some of his powers to a hardliner. foreign affairs adviser dmitry ryurikov told itar-tass news agency yeltsin had approved the draft of a document for signing on wednesday with belarus president alexander lukashenko. but yeltsin appeared to have resisted a rearguard action by russian liberals who fear the authoritarian lukashenko could gain a slice of power at the kremlin's expense , posing questions about democracy , stability and human rights. link: [comments: provides the referent for the liberals , and also needs previous mentions of similar things.] _ russian president boris yeltsin has on the whole approved the draft union treaty between russia and belarus , _ tass said. interfax news agency quoted well-informed source as saying an agreement would certainly be signed on wednesday but added : _ the most recent version of the text of the treaty should not be regarded as something final and fixed. _ russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a _ community _ with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by yeltsin and lukashenko on april 2 last year. link: [comments: provides the referent for it (but then again, should this second sentence be linked to the first one in the text that mention the union, even though the first sentence here is linked back to that?)] the liberals fear the economic implications of integrating with a state where economic reforms are barely under way and share western governments's concerns that lukashenko is not committed to democracy and freedom of speech. _ you can_ not talk about negotiating integration with a state where there is political repression , conditions for the normal existence of the opposition are ruled out and the work of the media is restricted , _ liberal leader grigory yavlinsky said. 