     Nikolai Ryzhkov, the former Soviet prime minister, was reported running a
distant second, averaging about 20 percent of the votes cast but doing better
in rural areas where the Communist Party had mobilized support among
farmworkers.;    Although a strong vote for Ryzhkov and perhaps other
conservative candidates in Russia's smaller cities and rural areas could
diminish Yeltsin's margin, he appeared certain of the absolute majority of
more than 50 percent he needed to win the presidency on the first ballot,
avoiding a runoff election.;    The likely size of that victory, moreover,
should not only assure Yeltsin the new executive presidency of the Russian
federation, the largest Soviet republic, but also give him the mandate he
sought for sweeping political and economic changes in the Soviet Union as a
whole.;    A beaming Yeltsin was greeted by chants of "Victory! Victory!" from
scores of supporters as he voted in Moscow. After dropping his ballot in a
box, he raised his fist and clasped his hands above his head in triumph.;   
"This is a celebration of the Russian federation's sovereignty," said Yeltsin,
noting that Wednesday was a holiday in the republic to mark the first
anniversary of Russia's move to wrest control of its resources away from the
Kremlin.;    Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev refused to say who got his
vote after he cast his ballot in Moscow. But he stressed that he is willing to
work with the winner.;    "I am ready to cooperate with anyone who will be
elected by Russians," Gorbachev said. "There will be no problems from my
side.";    It is clear, however, that a Yeltsin victory would represent a
distinct threat to Gorbachev, who has never faced a popular election. Yeltsin
would be able to claim that he alone has a democratic mandate to speak for the
people of the Soviet Union's largest republic.;    Ryzhkov, at another polling
station, said: "Social tension is high, and if we make drastic decisions that
affect people's lives, there will be unpredictable consequences. . . . I
cannot allow Russia and the rest of the country to be divided into two camps,
one camp for Gorbachev and the other for Ryzhkov or some other person.";    In
other results, the radical leaders of Moscow and Leningrad, Gavriil Popov and
Anatoly A. Sobchak, appeared to have won election over conservative rivals as
executive mayors with greater executive powers, according to the independent
Russian Information Agency.;    A proposal to change the name of Leningrad
back to St. Petersburg reportedly won the approval of 55 percent of the voters
in a non-binding referendum, but the ballot counting was not yet complete.;   
Even from the preliminary reports gathered by the Russian Information Agency
and other independent news organizations from across Russia, the size of
Yeltsin's victory was impressive.;    In constituencies as diverse as the
Soviet navy's Pacific fleet, fishermen and merchant sailors at sea, mining
towns beyond the Arctic Circle, Siberia's great industrial centers, the
ancient cities of European Russia and regions along the Chinese and Mongolian
borders, Yeltsin won the support of 55 percent to 80 percent of the voters,
according to unofficial reports from the Russian Information Agency.;    Such
a victory, demonstrating a strong majority support across the country, should
boost Yeltsin's political stature considerably.; Boris Yeltsin ahead in
election; (box) Born: Feb 1, 1931, in Butka, Siberia, in Russian republic;
(box) 1955: Construction worker in Sverdlovsk; (box) 1976: First secretary,
Sverdiocsk District Central Committee; (box) 1985: First secretary of Moscow
Communist Party.; (box) 1987: Outburst against conservative archrival Yegor
Ligachev leads to Yeltsin's ouster from Politburo.; (box) 1989: Bounces back
from disgrace; wins 89% of vote to be Moscow's representative in New Congress
of People's Deputies, the national parliament.; (box) 1990: Republic's
parliament elects him president of Russia.; (box) June 12, 1991: In Russia's
first popular election, Yeltsin leads by large margin in race for president.  
