his triumph refutes their assumptions his life declares that a good man of whatever color can rise in this country without the active assistance of the state. he has been helped all his life by affirmative action, but the kind liberals do not see and cannot accept: the uncoerced, unforced affirmative action that americans tend to take when someone at a disadvantage -- race, physical disability -- needs help. expect phrases of rolling sympathy as senators of the left bring up for him his humble origins and congratulate him on his grit and determination. what about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- for judge thomas's proponents, two great hopes: one is that the administration will hit america where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. what about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- for judge thomas's proponents, two great hopes: one is that the administration will hit america where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. what about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- for judge thomas's proponents, two great hopes: one is that the administration will hit america where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. what about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- for judge thomas's proponents, two great hopes: one is that the administration will hit america where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. 