in reaction to the uproar, the lapd is quickly phasing out the term pain-compliance, but not the techniques, which have been used in civil rights demonstrations, student demonstrations, vietnam demonstrations... all through the '60s, all through the '70s, gates said. as operation rescue built momentum, engaging in civil disobedience at clinics around the country, the allegations of police brutality increased: * in san diego, an officer reportedly moved through the demonstrators singing: don't try to understand 'em, just round 'em up and brand 'em. * in pittsburgh, women claimed they were sexually molested by officers. * in west hartford, conn., officers removed their badges and name tags -- purportedly to avoid cutting demonstrators -- and then allegedly hauled protesters away with come-along holds, by lifting them with sharp-edged plastic handcuffs, or with crotch carries in which a night stick is stuck between the protester's legs. rather, leaders began an aggressive letter-writing campaign, encouraging those who felt they had been abused and people who saw videotapes of the abuse to file complaints against the officers, and write to their senators, congressmen, the department of justice, and the u.s. commission on civil rights. rather, leaders began an aggressive letter-writing campaign, encouraging those who felt they had been abused and people who saw videotapes of the abuse to file complaints against the officers, and write to their senators, congressmen, the department of justice, and the u.s. commission on civil rights. william b. allen, a controversial ronald reagan appointee to the u.s. commission on civil rights, has similar views: we like to value tolerance. robert dornan (r-garden grove) read into the congressional record a column by william f. buckley jr. comparing the west hartford demonstrations to civil rights demonstrations in alabama three decades ago: it is hard to believe that bull connor, directing white redneck policemen, caused more brutality in the treatment of blacks than was caused by the police of west hartford in their treatment of members of operation rescue. an amendment introduced by conservative lawmakers in the house and senate, and tagged onto a hud bill later signed by the president, states that no community planning and development grants may be paid to any municipality that fails to adopt and enforce a policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within the jurisdiction of said municipality against any individuals engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations. 