12, 1986, at canterbury with the signing of the tunnel treaty by margaret thatcher and francois mitterrand (whose rolls-royce reportedly was met with flying eggs and chants of froggy, froggy, froggy, out, out, out ), promises to be completed and open for business by june 1993. it looks like child's play, until you spot the men in hard hats: tiny beside their mechanical dinosaurs, they are the toys in the sandbox. we few journalists, looking weedy as hell clutching our notebooks, trudge along in borrowed boots on a guided tour past some very large men (inwardly i take back all i thought, from the safety of the dewy green, poppy-sprayed ledge, about toys ). for mrs. thatcher, in her way a choreographer or a sculptor, the monument may be seen in terms of negative space: the tunnel is perhaps her final proof that britain's victorian glory can be recaptured without spending a penny of public money. despite the gift packs of french and english wine (more unfavorable comparisons) on sale just beneath the i dig the tunnel stickers at the eurotunnel exhibition centre, most britons seem to share, or will have to learn to live in regretful memory of, gladstone's view that england should be happy that the wise dispensation of providence has cut her off by that streak of silver sea... partly from dangers, absolutely from the temptations which attend upon the local neighbourhood of the continental nations. despite the gift packs of french and english wine (more unfavorable comparisons) on sale just beneath the i dig the tunnel stickers at the eurotunnel exhibition centre, most britons seem to share, or will have to learn to live in regretful memory of, gladstone's view that england should be happy that the wise dispensation of providence has cut her off by that streak of silver sea... partly from dangers, absolutely from the temptations which attend upon the local neighbourhood of the continental nations. despite the gift packs of french and english wine (more unfavorable comparisons) on sale just beneath the i dig the tunnel stickers at the eurotunnel exhibition centre, most britons seem to share, or will have to learn to live in regretful memory of, gladstone's view that england should be happy that the wise dispensation of providence has cut her off by that streak of silver sea... partly from dangers, absolutely from the temptations which attend upon the local neighbourhood of the continental nations. 