because of the new law, employers who have relied heavily on lie detectors will have to resort to such alternatives as written tests that are designed to gauge a person's honesty, and background checks of job applicants -- something that critics of polygraphs say they should have been doing in the first place. managers and other white-collar workers in the securities industry have been subject to polygraph tests where circumstances warrant, the trade group says, adding that the decision to test hinges on the employee's access to negotiable instruments, currency or securities -- not on the employee's rank. while he was chairman of the securities &amp exchange commission, john shad testified in a congressional hearing on polygraph testing that brokerage houses need to keep using lie detectors to protect trillions of dollars of securities. mr. kaufman asserts that even the use of lie-detector tests when there has been a theft, which will still be permitted under the new law, will end because employers will have to do such things as give an employee a written statement to the effect that he is reasonably suspected of stealing. some critics of polygraph testing say a major problem with lie detectors is that a conscientious but easily upset truth teller could show the quickened pulse, faster breathing, increased blood pressure and skin reactions that a polygraph typically measures. polygraph testing and scoring methods currently used in personnel screening have never been shown to be valid tests of truthfulness, said john f. beary, an assistant dean at georgetown university school of medicine, in recent testimony before congress for the american medical association. mr. persaud alleges in an interview that the young woman examiner who gave him the first test for amerifirst made him angry by persistently asking questions about stealing and kickbacks by seeming incredulous when he said that he had no credit-card debt and a mortgage on only one of his three houses and by implying that he had earlier told her his name was george. 