sadly, it is true that major steps in ship safety have followed great disasters: the general slocum fire, which killed 950 people in 1904, brought tighter requirements for life-saving gear and fire-fighting equipment the titanic, with its loss of 1,500 lives in 1912, brought rules on life-saving devices and certifying of lifeboat personnel in the '30s, the morro castle fire, which cost 124 lives, and the mohawk sinking, with a loss of 45 lives, brought regulations on the structure, equipment and materials of passenger ships. pollock fears that congress, the coast guard and the international maritime organization are not moving fast enough to mandate safeguards, despite 176 deaths last year in an arsonist's fire on the scandinavian star ferry in denmark, and the dramatic images of the cruise ship oceanos, which sank off south africa early in august, fortunately without loss of life. safety experts are primarily concerned with three issues: fire protection, particularly in the big atria of new cruise ships, the ability of crew members to give safety instructions in a language that passengers understand, and the aging of the world fleet of cruise ships. in fact, the coast guard gives four inspections a year to ships that dock in the united states, but when the vessel is registered in another country, the coast guard only makes sure the ship provides whatever is required by international safety of life at sea regulations: twice as many lifeboat seats as potential passengers and life jackets for 125 percent of capacity, with the equipment in good condition. when the rules were initially adopted by the international maritime organization, it was assumed that older vessels would pass out of service, but this did not happen, according to marjorie murtagh of the coast guard, the u.s. fire-safety representative at the international maritime organization. joel d. sipes, former chief of the coast guard's office of marine safety, testified in congress this spring: we have been concerned for a number of years that the grandfather clauses create an incentive to bring more and more older ships back into service. john t. estes, president of the international council of cruise lines, which represents the owners of most of the ocean-going cruise vessels, said that his organization favored all the proposed new rules, but not the proposed effective dates. 