george bush, by contrast, developed a coherent strategy to liberate kuwait backed up his diplomacy with a war plan that provided for sufficient force to achieve a clear military objective obtained at every step the endorsement not only of america's allies but -- miraculously -- also of the u.n. security council secured public support at home and the consent of a divided, reluctant congress wisely left military campaigns and tactics to his commanders and fended off a last minute attempt by mikhail gorbachev to turn iraq into a soviet protectorate. but then he hurled at his neighbors and at the world at large acts of mass cruelty that compelled ankara and london, tehran and paris, bonn and -- yes -- washington, to recognize that one's own moral integrity is more important than iraq's territorial integrity. even though the bush administration's response to the new challenge has been mysteriously slow and inept, saddam hussein's most recent depredations have killed his last chance to plead for magnanimity in victory, or to posture himself as the lesser evil, who would, at least, give us the blessings of stability in iraq. when saddam hussein is told to hand to the u.n. a list of all his prohibited weapons as a first step in complying with the ceasefire, he might well respond by arguing: (1) iraq never had any of these weapons, (2) if it had, american bombing raids have destroyed every one of them, and (3) if there were remaining weapons, all records have been burned by kurdish terrorists. we should expect unexplained disappearances of u.n. arms control inspectors, crashes (blamed on kurds) of u.n. helicopters looking for hidden chemical weapons, and the killing of thousands of iraqi soldiers, scientists and technicians who might reveal the location of prohibited weaponry. if international security guarantees were to fail in this instance, the deal that could be offered to israel would no longer be territory for peace, but territory for a worthless u.n. document. it will also determine the final winner in the contest between george bush and saddam hussein. --- mr. ikle, now with the center for strategic &amp international studies in washington, d.c., was undersecretary of defense in the reagan defense department. 