Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze on Monday hailed a decision by the Commonwealth of Independent States to extend Russia's peacekeeping role in breakaway Abkhazia , but separatists there poured scorn on it .
Shevardnadze said CIS leaders had agreed in Moscow on Friday that a 24-km ( 15-mile ) wide zone along the de_facto border between Georgia and Abkhazia would be extended several km ( miles ) deeper into the independence-minded region .

The 2,500 Russian peacekeepers are to be given policing powers to help guarantee the safety of returning Georgian refugees , most of whom fled following a 1993 separatist takeover after Abkhaz irregulars drove out the Georgian army .
Shevardnadze had said last week that the peacekeepers would have to leave if Russia did not give Georgia , devastated by civil and ethnic conflict since it became independent in 1991 , more help in restoring control over Abkhazia .
Many Georgian politicians want the peacekeepers to go and also demand that Russia leave three military bases it still has in the southern Caucasus state of about six million people .

The Abkhaz government , based in the regional capital Sukhumi , condemned the decision by the 12-nation CIS which rose form the ashes of the Soviet Union .
The decision means that the separatists will in effect lose control of more territory .

Tension between the minority Abkhaz and local Georgians , who once made up nearly half the pre-war population of 550,000 , spilled into bloodshed in 1992 when rag-tag Georgian military outfits stormed in to put down demands for more sovereignty .
But Russia , facing its own separatist rebellion in the north Caucasus region of Chechnya and fearing a "_ domino effect _" in other regions , now broadly supports Georgia over Abkhazia and helps enforce a partial economic blockade of the province .
Local Armenians and other ethnic groups in Abkhazia generally supported the Abkhaz in the conflict , when minorities feared what they called a wave of nationalism in Georgia .

