Selling off federal hydropower plants and power marketing agencies would be very complex and would likely affect electricity prices in some areas , according_to a Congressional report released Monday .
The General Accounting Office report surveyed all the interests that the government would need to address if it chose to sell the Southeastern , Southwestern and Western Area Power Marketing Administrations .

The report did not weigh the costs and benefits of a sale , a hot issue for lawmakers looking to balance the budget and for companies pushing for open power markets .
The lawmakers who asked for the report , led by Rep. Charles Norwood , a Georgia Republican , last week urged House Republican leaders to reject any plans to sell the power agencies , saying the fiscal benefits were questionable .
The report did not specify what the effect would be on rates , saying : "_ The potential effects of a divestiture on wholesale and retail electric rates , which in turn would affect regional economies , are other important issues .

Citing advocates for selling the power marketing agencies , the GAO said the private sector would be able to operate and maintain the assets more efficiently than the government .
But it said that opponents of privatization believed that the Treasury would lose more revenue than it would gain in proceeds from a sale .

The Clinton administration itself proposed privatizing the agencies two years ago to earn some quick revenue , but dropped the idea when lawmakers balked at losing the cheap electricity in their districts .
If the government decided to privatize the federal assets , it would have to find a way to balance the competing uses of water from federal projects for irrigation , power generation , and protection of fish and wildlife , the GAO said .
The three power marketing administrations covered in the report supply about 7 percent of the electricity needs of their utility customers , mostly to meet peak demand , at half the rates charged by other utilities , the report said .
