Army Brigadier General Nestor Gonzalez, who commands no troops, appeared at a press conference on Wednesday and made pronouncements against the chief of state, joining five other dissident officers on active duty who rebelled in February.
Following their tour, Rincon supported the official report by stating that "the supply of oil to the main national and international markets (this country's main source of foreign exchange) is normal and meets existing agreements."

Security at oil facilities at bases of operations and in administrative areas of Caracas has been stepped up, it was reported.
The second rebel, GN Div Gen Damiani, accused Chavez of having "ordered the National Guard to use force for the purpose of removing individuals positioned" in front of one of the PDVSA buildings in Chuao in this capital.
Damiani, an official on active duty, said he had revealed the information in order to try to impede "this action resulting from a presidential folly that will sully the name of the Armed Forces and especially the National Guard."

The national strike is an important battle in the long-range war whose final result is not shaping up as a romance," he said.
Leon added that the opposition has viewed the PDVSA conflict as "the perfect lifesaver for reviving civilian social pressure for Chavez' ouster from power, this following a cooling" of such pressure in recent days.

The alternative of a state of emergency was explicitly ruled out this Wednesday by Interior Minister Ramon Rodriguez Chacin.
The high military commands supported the government during the emergency caused by the strike staged by the trade union and business association opposition, a strike that was extended indefinitely on Wednesday night, according to Carlos Ortega, president of the Venezuelan Workers Confederation (CTV), the largest labor confederation in the country.
Datanalisis analyst Leon indicated that even though Chavez still controls the military forces at the present time, this fact "constitutes no permanent life insurance," since the current indefinite general strike called by the opposition CTV and the FEDECAMARAS [Venezuelan Federation of Associations and Chambers of Commerce and Industry] leadership is only one battle in a war that he predicts will be a long one.
