    Rapidly growing environmental fears have made climate research more important then ever ? and Europe is forging ahead in the field with the planned launch of the ERS-1 .
    Already trumpeted as & bquo ; A Mission To Earth & equo ; by Nasa , climate research has gained new prominence , chiming with the rise in environmental concerns the world over .
	

    It '_ s an area in which Europe has forged ahead and which , against all the odds , is actively supported by our very own government .
	

    For_once , the UK is in the good books of the European Space Agency ( ESA ) for our support of the European Remote Sensing ( ERS ) programme , which will use the most complex satellites it has ever attempted to build . & bquo ; It '_ s one of the most important projects we have for the 1990s , & equo ; says Philip Goldsmith , head of Earth observation at the European Space Agency .

    ERS-1 has five instruments which will scan the Earth at microwave wavelengths to monitor ocean , ice and land resources .
	

    Microwave techniques will enable ERS-1 to return data continuously : they can & bquo ; see & equo ; through cloud and operate at night .
	
    Two of the ERS instruments have been provided by the UK .
	

    The Active Microwave Instrument radar system , built by Marconi Space Systems , is significant because it can be used over land or ocean : it will return vital information about how the wind interacts with waves .
	
 But the emphasis for ERS-1 is science , as the ERS programme is ESA '_ s contribution to Woce , the World Ocean Circulation Experiment , an important part of global climate research in the 1990s .

 At present , only France has not given its go-ahead for ERS-2 funding .
 While France prevaricates , other nations are expressing interest in the ERS programme .

India , Pakistan , Indonesia , Brazil and Kenya have asked to receive data from ERS-1 , which will be made available to them within three hours of it being transmitted from the satellite .
	
	

