PRAWNS are not small fry .
	

    According_to the Shellfish Association of Great Britain , they are our most popular seafood .

  But while rising demand , high prices and fast growth provide the stimulus , the prawn '_ s life-cycle presents many problems for the would-be farmer .
	

    A team of scientists from the distinctly untropical environment of the University College of North Wales in Bangor has solved some of these problems by designing food fit for a prawn to eat .

Peneaeus monodon , the Asian prawn , spends much of its life in coastal waters , migrating at maturity to deeper water for spawning .
	

    Here the female may produce 800,000 eggs which hatch within 36 hours into larvae .
	

    The larvae undergo a complex cycle of 12 stages in almost as many days , making their way back inshore as they reach their adult form .
	

    Traditionally , prawn farmers have trapped these young adults ( or & bquo ; post-larvae & equo ; as they are called ) and put them into ponds .
	

    But with this method , supplies are unreliable .
   During the larval cycle , prawns change their diet dramatically , from plant plankton to animal plankton and finally to the creatures which live in the sediment .
	

    In the past , hatcheries have had to rely on live feed , which is as unreliable and expensive to harvest from nature as it is to grow artificially .
	

    Clearly , some form of artificial feed was needed .
   So the problem was to create a feed which came in particles of the right size ( five millionths of a metre across ) , could be freeze-dried , would not foul the water , dissolve or feed the bugs .



    The North Wales scientists came up with the solution .
	

    A team led by Dr David Jones , of Bangor '_ s renowned School of Ocean Sciences , designed a revolutionary new feed , using a process called microencapsulation which puts a thin , digestible membrane around each tiny food particle .

    Originally , the team mixed prawn nutrients with amines , thinking that they would be needed to form the capsule .
	

    But it soon became obvious that the proteins of the nutrient contained the correct chemical groups , and that the food molecules themselves were polymerizing and creating the capsule membrane .
    Dr Jones and his team are now extending their work to other species , and to the post-larval stage , which leads to the ultimate product ?
	

    the prawn on the end of your fork .
	

    And expertise gained has enabled the university to launch a new MSc course in shellfish biology , fisheries and culture ?
	

    due_to take its first students in the coming academic year .
 The end result is that Dr Jones takes on overseas researchers . & bquo ; That '_ s fine as far as I am concerned & equo ; he says . & bquo ; They do n't cost British industry or taxpayers a thing , but of_course they take all their expertise abroad .
	






















 


	

  	
