The 184-page civil complaint filed in U.S. District Court in New York against Milken, Drexel and others on Wednesday followed months of speculation about Drexel's involvement in the Ivan Boesky insider trading scandal. Drexel merged with Burnham &amp Co. in 1973 and Lambert Brussels Witter in 1976 to become today's Drexel Burnham Lambert, and Milken's job was moved to New York. Also pending are a multitude of civil cases lodged in the past three years against Mr. Boesky, Drexel, Mr. Milken and others that accuse the defendants of insider trading, stock manipulation and other securities law violations. Finally, a sprinkling of cases across the country target Mr. Milken among many other defendants in cases alleging that savings and loans associations and other companies suffered losses because they purchased large portfolios of Drexel's junk bonds as part of back-scratching arrangements with Mr. Milken. Mr. Bromberg and others assert that Mr. Liman, Mr. Milken's principal lawyer, negotiated to make the plea agreement narrow enough so that little of what Mr. Milken admitted to can be used against him in the civil suits. Milken: The Junk Bond Case BACKGROUND: Filed on behalf of individuals who purchased junk bonds underwritten and sold through Drexel, the suit alleges that Mr. Milken created a daisy chain of investors who would buy and sell Drexel-underwritten bonds at Mr. Milkens direction. Mr. Milken's top salesman, James Dahl, was sitting next to Mr. Milken at the trading desk when Mr. Milken called Mr. Boesky, and listened as Mr. Milken issued the trading orders and he and Mr. Boesky refined their strategy to capitalize on the still-secret information. As these previously unreported details show, Diamond Shamrock looks like a brazen example of Mr. Milken's and Mr. Boesky's joint insider trading. It shows how Mr. Milken's lawyers and public relations advisers tried to manipulate potential witnesses and the press, and it reveals that Mr. Milken actually tried to plead guilty a year before he finally did so. Pacific Lumber was gearing up to resist, but then Mr. Boesky started buying the company's shares on Mr. Milken's orders. Mr. Milken's scheme netted Drexel more than $20 million in fees and generated over $1 million in insider trading profits on the stock owned jointly by Messrs. The payment was the money Mr. Boesky had owed Mr. Milken when they finally decided to settle the books on their illegal trading arrangement. Now Mr. Dahl began to question the loyalty of his lawyer, Robert Litt, whose firm also represented Mr. Milken. Mr. Dahl immediately went to his old lawyer, Mr. Litt, still working for Mr. Milken, and told him I didn't do the trades, Mike did. ADMISSION OF GUILT By late 1988, having heard the Princeton-Newport tapes and other evidence, Chief Executive Fred Joseph had ceased to believe in Mr. Milken's innocence. Mr. Joseph traveled to the office of Mr. Milken's lead attorney, Arthur Liman (Mr. Williams having died that summer), to explain his painful decision to have the firm plead guilty and dismiss Mr. Milken. 1988 The SEC accuses Drexel, Milken and others of insider trading, stock manipulation, fraud and other violations of federal securities laws. Liman/Joseph discussions: While acknowledging having a wide-ranging philosophical discussion, Mr. Liman has denied comparing Mr. Joseph to the Nazis. -- James B. Stewart But what isn't clear is whether loyal ex-colleagues will follow the Pied Piper of junk bonds to his new firm _ and how long the venture will last with Milken facing a lengthy jail term. People involved in Milken's plans for the new firm, International Capital Assets Group, said Milken does not intend to raid Drexel's Beverly Hills, Calif., junk bond division, which he founded and ran until his March indictment. A Drexel official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Wall Street giant does not anticipate conflicts with Milken's new firm because it will not be in the brokerage business. Under Drexel's still-to-be-approved settlement of civil insider trading and other fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Drexel and its employees are barred from doing business with Milken, directly or indirectly. The Drexel official said the provision likely will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, so some contact between the New York investment firm's clients and Milken may occur. I am naturally disappointed to be forced to leave Drexel as part of the firm's settlement with the government, but I look forward to the opportunity of helping people build companies, Michael Milken said in a statement. Columbia Savings &amp Loan Association has filed a $6 billion civil lawsuit accusing Michael Milken and other former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. officials of fraudulently peddling junk bonds in the 1980s. The 176-page lawsuit by Columbia also claims that Milken and other Drexel employees appropriated stock in buyouts for themselves via the investment partnerships that should have gone to junk bond buyers in the deals. The news Wednesday that Milken will be fired by Drexel and will not paid his 1988 bonus of $200 million as part of the company's settlement of securities fraud charges signals the end to the Milken era at Drexel. While Milken's junk bonds helped companies create thousands of new jobs, they also led to layoffs of workers at firms taken over by raiders financed by junk bonds. Michael Milken, the Drexel Burnham Lambert junk bond wizard in Beverly Hills who revolutionized U.S. corporate finance and raised funds for dozens of corporate raids, was indicted Wednesday on federal racketeering, insider trading and other securities fraud counts. Sources at the firm said the indictment of Michael Milken probably would clear the way for Drexel to swiftly settle civil charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The indictment notes that Milken received $1.1 billion in direct compensation from Drexel from 1984 through 1987, as well as millions in other forms of compensation, and that he is Drexel's largest individual stockholder, owning about 6% of the firm. The indictment says that, during those years, Milken's personal compensation amounted to between 28% and 44% of the junk bond department's gross revenues. Drexel's tentative settlement of the six criminal charges pending against the firm calls for it to withhold nearly all of Michael Milken's compensation from 1988, as well as about $13 million owed to Lowell Milken. The timing of Milken's resignation appears to have been influenced by a Supreme Court decision last week that cleared the way for Drexel to complete its announced plan to settle civil insider-trading and securities fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Steven Anreder, Drexel's spokesman, said: Michael Milken made many important contributions to Drexel Burnham, and his resignation, although not unexpected, is a sad event. For the time being, Milken's legal problems probably will prevent him from competing directly with Drexel, individuals involved in the legal cases said. The SEC settlement's ban on Drexel doing business either directly or indirectly with Milken could be interpreted to mean that Drexel can't do business with clients advised by Milken. Friends of Milken's have speculated that one reason he decided to start a new firm now is that, since taking a leave of absence from Drexel, he has had an unaccustomed amount of time on his hands. Sources confirmed Thursday that another former Drexel employee, Reed Harmon, who had worked closely with Milken, was recently granted immunity in exchange for testimony before a grand jury. Lawyers for Michael and Lowell Milken are challenging provisions of the settlement agreement, including a requirement that Drexel withhold much of the brothers' compensation owed them for 1988. Some analysts interpreted this as a major reversal, since Milken's later years at Drexel were largely spent promoting leveraged buyouts financed with huge chunks of junk-bond debt. It's not clear, for example, whether legal problems would arise if a company hired Drexel to underwrite securities according to a recapitalization plan drawn up by Milken. FALL OF THE JUNK BOND KING Here is a chronology of key developments in the prosecution of former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. high-yield bond chief Michael Milken: Nov. If junk had stayed a backwater -- and if either the enforcers at the Securities and Exchange Commission or Milken's alleged superiors at Drexel Burnham Lambert reined Milken in -- he wouldn't be going to jail. 