Clouds obscured the solar spectacular in Jakarta, Indonesia, Hong Kong and in the eastern Mindanao city of Davao, where thousands of tourists and scientists had gathered to observe the eclipse. In Manila, thousands turned out under clear skies to see the partial eclipse that blocked about 75 percent of the sun's surface at its height. In Hawaii, Mauna Loa erupted for the first time in six years, stunning scientists by releasing a dazzling fountain of lava at the height of the eclipse. In the 160-mile-wide swath from Hawaii to Baja to Mexico to Brazil, the morning turned into night -- the only region where the eclipse made the Earth totally dark. Several people viewed the eclipse through welder's helmets in downtown Anchorage, Alaska, where the moon obscured 80 percent of the sun at 9:13 a.m. The percentage of the sun blocked out and time of maximum eclipse at other locations included 52 percent at 11:28 a.m. Fearful that people would suffer eye damage during the eclipse, scientists warned against staring at the sun directly or through inadequate filters, including smoked glass and photographic film or filters. Cloudy weather Saturday threatened to mar the show for thousands of Finnish and foreign skygazers hoping to glimpse a total solar eclipse in this land of the midnight sun. During the past week, newspapers, television and radio have been full of information about solar eclipses, as well as advice for spectators not to stare directly into the sun. Baja California Sur alone plans to spend $26.5 million for public safety for eclipse enthusiasts but banks on raking in millions more from tourism. Also, its 150-mile-wide path across Hawaii, Baja California, Mexico City and four Central American capital cities puts more people in the moon's shadow than any other eclipse in history, says Alan Dyer, an editor of Astronomy magazine. It took 24 hours for Orion Telescope in Cupertino to sell its stock of 900 Eclipse Viewers, which are made with Mylar plastic lenses and supposedly safe for eclipse viewing. (box)California State University, Hayward is hosting a Safe Solar Eclipse viewing from 10 a.m. to noon in front of the Student Union. 