Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudi border, today sought peace on another front by promising to withdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers captured during the Iran-Iraq war. The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago, when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields. Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food and other goods from going in. And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Yet some allied Arab officials also worry about the sight of their American friends gunning down hundreds or thousands of Arab soldiers from Iraq this may leave them as torn now as Mr. Bush. The announcement of the peace plan in Moscow occurred only hours after Saddam Hussein had delivered a defiant speech in Baghdad in which he seemed to dare the U.S. and its allies to launch a ground attack to drive his troops out of Kuwait. But for precisely that same reason, some U.S. officials have grown increasingly eager to press on with the war to finish off Iraq's military machine while the chance is available. For the U.S., one of the public complaints is likely to involve the failure of the plan to comply with all 12 U.N. resolutions passed to compel Iraq to leave Kuwait. 16 U.S.-led forces launch air attacks on Iraq aimed at driving Saddam Hussein's troops from Kuwait. 29 Bush delivers his State of the Union address and says the U.S. will prevail in forcing Iraq from Kuwait. 5 Bush says he is somewhat skeptical that air power alone will force Iraqi troops to leave Kuwait, as new intelligence reports suggest Iraq's ability to resist a ground offensive is diminishing rapidly. But it has offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, not just the liberation of Kuwait. Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV's This Week With David Brinkley that the series of United Nations resolutions condemning Iraq's invasion of Kuwait imply that the restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be a heck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not in power in Iraq. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S. officials now say, was that they all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly, leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plunged his country first into a fruitless eight-year-long war against Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S. and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving much of his country's military establishment and modern infrastructure in ruins. Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and an international arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraq pays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or its armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power. Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein's support within the Iraqi military. Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that he acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq. More broadly, U.S. commanders reported yesterday that allied forces have destroyed or rendered ineffective 21 Iraqi divisions, more than half the total in and around Kuwait. Rear Admiral Mike McConnell, director of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs, said that allied forces found a document, which he said was written to Iraq's senior generals before the war started, ordering Iraqi troops to inflict maximum casualties on U.S. troops and also to destroy Kuwaiti oil facilities. U.S. commanders yesterday conceded that Iraq went into the war with far more mobile Scud launchers than U.S. intelligence had estimated. Beyond that, officials of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a military alliance of Saudi Arabia and the five smaller Gulf Arab states, already have worked out plans for an Islamic peacekeeping force to guard Kuwait. The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United States took a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Hussein called President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy war could bring thousands of Americans home in coffins. After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with King Hussein of Jordan, Bush said, I did not come away with any feeling of hope that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait. In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq has continued to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they now number about 160,000. An international land, sea and air force has mobilized since Iraq's invasion, which was sparked by disputes over oil, land and repayment of war loans. Bush was expected to authorize naval commanders to use the minimum force necessary to interdict shipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. Few Americans much notice that Saddam Hussein of Iraq is accusing his small neighbors of harboring an imperial-Zionist plan to drive down the price of oil. 1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks with Kuwait on Iraqi grievances over oil pricing, Kuwaiti war loans to Iraq, and Iraqi claims on Kuwaiti territory. 19 _ Saddam offers to free all foreigners in Iraq and Kuwait if the United States promises to withdraw its forces from Saudi Arabia and guarantee that an international embargo will be lifted. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, meanwhile, met in Moscow with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, two days after the U.S.-Soviet summit that produced a joint demand that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait. Here is the text of President Bush's address to the people of Iraq, as released by the White House: I'm here today to explain to the people of Iraq why the United States and the world community has responded the way it has to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. Twenty-seven states, rich and poor, Arab, Muslim, Asian and African, have answered the call of Saudi Arabia and free Kuwait and sent forces to the gulf region to defend against Iraq. War Pros Here are the major justifications for war that have been advanced by Bush or his supporters: Counter aggression: Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait has posed the first crisis of the post-Cold War world. But even if war becomes necessary to force Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, it would be better to wage it after the sanctions have weakened the Iraqi army and air force, depriving them of spare parts and supplies. Some of Iraq's differences with Kuwait may be legitimate. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx HOW THE WAR MIGHT UNFOLD PHASE 1 (DAY ONE TO THREE) (includes small graphics) Objective: Destroy the country's air defense systems, air force installations and command centers through bombing raids, cutting off most of the Iraqi troops from Baghdad's central command. Having rid the Iraqi skies of planes, aircraft would conduct low-level bombings of sites in both Kuwait and Iraq, where troops have dug in. U.S.-led forces would use aircraft such as the A-10 Thunderbolt (Warthogs) and Apache helicopters to smash Iraqi tanks and undermine resistance to ground forces, both in Kuwait and Iraq. President Bush freezes Iraqi and Kuwaiti assets in the United States, bans trade with Iraq and bars Iraqi aircraft and ships from U.S. ports 3: Arab League condemns invasion. 8: Two days after fall elections, Bush orders near doubling of U.S. forces in the gulf to 400,000 to give the United States an adequate offensive option. More than 700,000 allied troops are deployed against Iraq in the sands of Saudi Arabia, and officials said all is in readiness for an overwhelming assault by air, land and sea against Iraqi forces entrenched in Kuwait. IRAQ MONTHS OF SANCTIONS ARE TAKING THEIR TOLL IRAQ'S economy was severely damaged by the war, and the trade sanctions imposed by the United Nations shortly after Iraq invaded Kuwait last August are starting to take a toll. THE U.S. MILITARY HIGH-TECH WEAPONS, NEW WAR PLAN WORKED THE Pentagon's fascination with sophisticated weaponry appears to have won a ringing endorsement, thanks to the convincing victory over Iraq. 