It's purely based on race or dress, not on whether you are involved in any drug activity, said Gary Trichter, a Houston defense lawyer and former police officer who specializes in such cases. Honey A. Lewis, who represents the officer and the Police Department, said Searle had acted properly and was merely asking Morgan to identify himself when Morgan suddenly became belligerent, spewing profanities and slapping the officer. The offending officer's police report indicated that the suspect's injuries were due to a fall from his bike and that he appeared unconscious, although he had also struggled against being handcuffed. I agree with Councilwoman Blanca Alvarado's suggestion and the San Jose City Council's decision to create a system where a city official will receive and track citizen complaints about the police. In the days after the March 3 nightstick beating of Rodney G. King, the Police Department released transcripts of computer messages that one of the officers at the scene sent to a another officer. The Civil Rights Commission in 1989, under pressure from some members of Congress, decided against an investigation of alleged police brutality against anti-abortion activists and decided not to ask the Justice Department to investigate. The King beating led to an investigation of the police department by an independent commission that found racism, brutality, inadequate discipline, mismanagement and a siege mentality pitting officers against the community. On the county side, critics say Block's position as an elected official insulates him from the kind of independent review the city was able to order for the police department. Through the years Mr. Gates has made public statements clearly at odds with the new concept of community policing, in which officers work with citizens to improve neighborhoods and prevent crime. Nearly one-quarter of 650 officers responding to a commission survey agreed that racial bias on the part of officers toward minority citizens currently exists and contributes to a negative interaction between police and community, and in some cases may lead to the use of excessive force, the report said. A scant eight hours is devoted to cultural awareness training at the Los Angeles Police Academy, and many officers who train new recruits in the field openly perpetuate the siege mentality that alienates patrol officers from the community, the commission concluded. In a series of rallies in recent weeks, protesters demanded that officers involved in the drug raid be suspended, charges against those arrested at the hotel be dropped, and that a citizen police review board be established. At the City Council hearings Thursday and Friday, blacks who alleged they were the victims of police brutality accused officers _ most of them white _ of unprovoked beatings, false arrests, intimidation and insulting them with racial slurs. Two police officers, whose names were not disclosed, noticed the door to his apartment was not tightly shut and entered, authorities said. Besides recommending that Mr Gates should go, the Christopher commission urged a policy of community policing with more foot patrols, as well as measures to discipline racist police officers and to improve the investigation of complaints about police brutality. A controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent demonstrators they are arresting. At a commission briefing on police brutality charges, organized by Allen in September, Robert McCue, chief of the West Hartford police, defended his officers. Jim Cady in the Times Editorial Library assisted in the research for this article. * NEW USE FOR OLD TOOL An ancient Asian farm tool has become a cutting edge weapon for many police officers in Southern California. Although Long Beach Mayor Ernie Kell told NBC's Today Show on Tuesday morning that the two police officers had been suspended, Police Chief Lawrence L. Binkley said that the officers, Mark Dickey and Mark Ramsey, will remain on duty at this stage of the investigation. A spokesman for the Police Misconduct Lawyer Referral Service, a nonprofit group that investigates citizen complaints against law enforcement agencies, said the televised tape makes it clear that Dickey pushed Jackson's head and right arm through the window. Dickey has been temporarily reassigned to a desk job, and Jackson was charged with interfering with a police officer. The men involved in three of the five incidents have filed police brutality lawsuits against the city, the department or the police officers involved. The latest incident involving an accusation of police brutality stemmed from the June 15 clash between 18 officers and about 12 party guests at a house in the 1300 block of South E Street. In an incident April 7, Sergio E. Gonzalez, 19, accused Oxnard officers of ordering a police dog to attack him before he was arrested. But the district attorney's office declined to file any charges because the police report failed to show that Gonzalez was involved in the altercation, Brodie said. 14, 1989, the Police Department and officers Jana Younger, Fred Sedillos and James Struck, Guzman-Flores contends that he was grabbed from behind by Younger while in the alley. The district attorney's office decided to prosecute Flores but later dismissed all charges during Flores' trial because police failed to turn over a recording of a dispatcher's call requesting that officers investigate the incident at the motorcycle shop, McCracken said. But Luna said the Police Department later sent him a letter saying the investigation revealed no wrongdoing on the officers' parts. 