Mad cow disease has killed 10,000 cattle, restricted the export market for Britain's cattle industry and raised fears about the safety of eating beef. Because of the disease, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in July banned imports of cattle, embryos and bull semen from Britain, said Margaret Webb, a USDA spokeswoman in Washington. The question has burned with special intensity since scrapie, the form of the disease in sheep, jumped to British cattle a few years ago after they were fed ground-up parts of infected sheep. Indeed, CJD is a nefarious trickster the first reported case of the disease, which entered medical texts in the 1920s, really wasn't CJD after all, scientists now believe. En route, he heard that a primitive New Guinea tribe, the Fore, were dying in droves from an unknown brain disorder they called kuru, the shivering disease, because it started with tremors. Brain tissue of infected animals could transmit the disease when injected into different animals' brains, yet microscopes revealed no signs of infectious microbes. Still, Dr. Brown and other scientists aren't much worried about mad cows because their animal studies show spongiform disease is very hard to transmit orally. If the disease has jumped from sheep to cattle -- and cases have also been reported in kudu antelope at London Zoo -- could it affect humans? That prospect, discounted by most scientists -- including MAFF critics such as Mr Purdey -- is considered a possibility by Richard Lacey, a Leeds University microbiologist who has been studying cases of CJD, a disease with a long incubation period. THE CONDITION known in cattle as 'mad cow disease', spongiform encephalopathies, has been found in Britain's sparsely-scattered antelope population, the government has admitted. Dr Kenneth Calman, the government's chief medical officer, yesterday repeated the official advice that beef can be eaten safely: 'There is no scientific evidence of a causal link between BSE in cattle and CJD in humans.' Richard Lacey, a microbiology professor at Leeds University and the leading critic of government policy on BSE, said the deaths this year of two farmers whose herds had suffered from mad cow disease could not be put down to chance. 'Since the illness of the cows (in Templeman's herd) and the patient occurred within months of each other, the animals and the patient had presumably incubated disease in parallel for some years,' the health department said. 