It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen. Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues. At the same time, Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies. Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates. But the rise and fall of Sherman Adams, President Eisenhower's powerful chief-of-staff, is more than an interesting political doppleganger to the travails of his lineal heir, John Sununu. That Sherman Adams, the first assistant president and John Sununu, conceivably the last of the imperial chiefs of staff, were both catapulted from governor of the Granite state into national prominence is not at all coincidental. When he took office, Adams began a program of streamlining and reducing state government that provided a model followed three decades later for another new New Hampshire governor, John Sununu. Three degrees from MIT But an upper middle-class New York upbringing, a brilliant career at military school and three degrees from MIT put the reputed 180 I.Q. Sununu on the fast track. Another highly placed source said the president's son met with Sununu last week after holding a series of conversations about the structure of the White House staff and of the campaign with other Bush loyalists and GOP activists. Indeed, in a May 1990 cover story called Big Bad John Sununu, Time magazine said: Sununu has emerged as Bush's most inspired choice for any senior post. As that encounter suggests, Mr. Sununu, the brainy former New Hampshire governor, has begun thriving in Washington even though his brusque style still rubs some people the wrong way. Many political analysts here believe that Mr. Sununu has moderated his brash style, and that the former governor has adjusted to his White House role. Despite such deft internal maneuvering, though, some Democrats and Republicans alike suspect Mr. Sununu, with his combative style, still may be accumulating too many enemies for his own good. Mr. Sununu also rankled some Republican congressional leaders by dressing them down at a recent White House meeting for failing to properly support Mr. Bush's programs. But Mr. Bush, who spoke to reporters before a White House meeting as Mr. Sununu sat nearby, also seemed to suggest that he would like his chief of staff to avoid creating new travel controversies. 