What about those poor blacks not greatly gifted or guided -- what about them? --- For Judge Thomas's proponents, two great hopes: One is that the administration will hit America where it lives and go over the heads of the talking suits and straight to the people, presenting as witnesses on television the affirmative action crew that lifted a young boy with nothing to great heights -- the mother who was a maid, the grandmother who saved up the tuition and the nuns who helped open his eyes. Three years ago, the Senate denied confirmation to Judge Robert Bork despite having voted to confirm him only a few years earlier to the same court on which Thomas now sits. The background of Judge Clarence Thomas is less important than his views and what they mean to protecting our constitutional rights, said Sen. (box) 1981-'82: assistant secretary for civil rights, Education Department (box) 1982-'90: chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (box) 1990-: U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Source: Who's Who Among Black Americans There, in the segregated black Georgia of four decades past, began the toughening of Clarence Thomas, nominee to the United States Supreme Court. From these roots, he might have become one of any number of bright, activist black men to rise out of Southern poverty and press a politically aggressive liberal agenda of civil rights and affirmative action -- as did men like Thurgood Marshall, the retiring justice whose Supreme Court seat Thomas might take. There, just the other day, Leola Williams, Thomas' mother, talked about how the force of family worked on her son: Clarence was surrounded by all our older parents. Thomas, who paid for his college education with loans, jobs and the newly raised scholarship funds, soon was drawn into the turbulence of Vietnam War and black power politics. Reagan administration officials were so impressed by Thomas and his new conservative leanings that they appointed him assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education. Nomination Of Clarence Thomas President Bush has chosen Judge Clarence Thomas of the U.S. Court of Appeals to replace Justice Thurgood Marshall, who is retiring from the Supreme Court. Thomas' dramatic political and philosophical transformation reveals more about the man than does his Horatio Alger journey from rural Southern poverty to Supreme Court nomination. His philosophy by that point was that he felt that this country was affording people opportunities if they were willing to work and that to rely on government was in the nature of servitude, said lawyer Harvey Tettlebaum, who worked with Thomas. The fact that she is white has drawn criticism from some blacks who see the marriage as evidence that Clarence Thomas has rejected his roots. Dean Kelley, the National Council of Churches' counselor on religious liberty, wrote a critique of Clarence Thomas that was used as grounds for his organization's opposition to the Supreme Court nominee. At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco, Calif., Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration, and in 1981 he was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education. The reason for the smooth passage, EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench) thinks, is that Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition. While at the EEOC, Mr. Thomas gave speeches accusing the Republican Party of blatant indifference toward black voters, and chastised Ronald Reagan in particular for letting Bob Jones University get away with racial discrimination, and for foot dragging on the Voting Rights Act extension. 