Lawrence Martin Jenco, freed after almost 19 months as hostage, says he was held with Anderson and two other hostages for a year. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S. hostage. Today, March 16, 1989, the American journalist Terry Anderson, 41, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press in Beirut, entered his fifth year of captivity as a hostage in Lebanon, said a statement that the groups asked broadcasters to air and newspapers to use on their front pages. Police say Lebanese authorities have no information on the whereabouts of Anderson or the 15 other Western hostages in Lebanon. Terry Anderson's daughter pleaded for the father she loves but has never known to come home today, the day Anderson began his sixth year as a hostage in Lebanon. Yellow ribbons fluttered from trees, signs and poles in Anderson's hometown of Batavia, N.Y. Anderson 42, the chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press, is the longest-held of the American hostages in Lebanon. Former hostages chained themselves to a tree in Paris to protest Anderson's captivity, and President Bush pledged to work for the hostages' release. Lebanese newspapers also published a letter today signed Sulome and Madeleine, from the girl and her mother, Madeleine Bassil, who wait in Cyprus for Anderson's release. I intend to keep open lines of communications with all parties, including Iran, who have influence over hostage-takers, the President said in a letter to Peggy Say, Anderson's sister. The solemn ceremony, held across the street from the White House, also brought together the families of the seven other Americans who were kidnaped after Anderson and are still held in Lebanon. In Paris, former hostages Jean-Paul Kauffman and Roger Auque put on blindfolds and chained themselves to a tree outside the Iranian Embassy to protest Anderson's captivity. In a letter published by seven Beirut newspapers, Anderson's wife, Madeline Bassil, told her husband that she and their daughter also feel like hostages. At the White House, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. officials had no official word that reports of Anderson's release were true. We are immensely relieved that Terry Anderson's 6 1/2-year nightmare is over, said Louis D. Boccardi, Associated Press president and chief executive officer, following the initial reports of Anderson's release. 6 - In a videotape, Anderson urges all parties to accelerate negotiations to free Western hostages and says hundreds of Arab prisoners deserve freedom, too. 