Already boasting the world's two largest resort hotels, Las Vegas soon will have five hotel-casinos with more than 3,000 rooms apiece. When finished sometime late next year, the $550 million resort will have 3,200 guest rooms set in a watery tropical setting that hotel officials claim will be like nothing Las Vegas has ever seen. Part of the Las Vegas lure also comes from room rates that average $45 a night, far below the $100 or more charged by non-gaming hotels in other cities. Japanese billionaire Masao Nangaku, who bought the Dunes Hotel and Casino two years ago for $157 million, is planning a 35-story high-rise office building and 300-room nongaming hotel in downtown Las Vegas. But Fletch Brunelle, research coordinator for the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, said that there are hotel construction projects under way all over the city. Many of the new rooms are being added to existing hotels, which are also expanding their casinos and convention halls, Leonard added. Seeking Conventions Hotel/casino owners throughout Las Vegas responded the same way to business setbacks in 1979, when casinos first opened in Atlantic City, N.J., and in the early '80s, when there was an economic recession. New Experiences Planned But Las Vegas is banking on more than its current gaming and convention capabilities to draw visitors and fill hotel rooms. Las Vegas is also betting on what state tourism director Moreno describes as new experiences, like the live dolphins that will perform at the Mirage and jousting tournaments that will be held at Excalibur. Other features are the costs of all Las Vegas production shows, plus a map and toll-free numbers for all casinos and other travel services. Stung by seesawing oil prices, competition from Atlantic City, N.J., and a moribund U.S. economy, Las Vegas has turned its attention toward Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and other booming Asian countries in search of gamblers. If MGM Grand Inc. proceeds with its plan for an amusement park -- a $700 million movieland resort with a working studio, casino and 5,000-room hotel that would become Las Vegas's biggest -- the investment in the three properties will total some $1.6 billion. Stephen A. Wynn, who owns 29.4% of Golden Nugget's shares, says the Mirage and other projects will help Las Vegas attract a whole new generation of visitors. The projects already under construction will increase Las Vegas's supply of hotel rooms by 11,795, or nearly 20%, to 75,500. City fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth, such as the expansion of McCarran International Airport to accommodate the 44% of Las Vegas tourists who fly here. Despite the new emphasis on the family trade, however, tourists in search of naughtier fun than gambling seem certain to find it, with Las Vegas call girls remaining on the scene. Atlantic City casino owner Donald Trump is scouting the Las Vegas market with an eye toward building an appropriately spectacular place. 