Some Third World commercial banks are taking note of poor entrepreneurs' repayment rates. Although now well-liked (partly for championing causes such as women's rights in the Third World), many observers say he never fully recovered from a rocky start involving a divisive internal reorganisation of the bank. 'The bank failed to take a timely leadership position on the debt crisis,' concludes Mr Richard Feinberg, director of the Overseas Development Council in Washington. The World Bank operates under very different rules: its charter requires it to be non-political and only its small affiliate, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), can make direct loans to private businesses. MR Lewis Preston, World Bank president, yesterday promised to strengthen the bank's efforts to reduce poverty in developing countries. Third World debtors had to pay $50.1 billion more to service their debts to the United States and other creditors last year than they received in new loans -- a major drain on their already cash-strapped economies -- the World Bank reported Sunday. Drain Began in 1984 However, efforts under the Brady plan are going relatively slowly, and World Bank officials cautioned that the results may not show up for at least two or three more years. First Bank System Inc., Minneapolis, the nation's 15th biggest banking concern, charged off $25.4 million in troubled foreign loans during the third quarter. First Chicago Corp., the 11th largest banking concern, charged off $48.9 million in Third World loans during the quarter. While the debt morass has deepened, Mr. Conable's World Bank has looked inward, shuffling its organization charts around in a disruptive reorganization and then campaigning for a $74.8 billion increase in its capital. As Congress considers the increase, liberal critics on Capitol Hill are demanding that Mr. Conable show he is ready to use the bank's vast resources to make some direct impact on reducing the huge burden of Third World debt. Mr. Conable subscribes to the Baker Plan, which stresses new lending by commercial banks and the World Bank to debtor countries that adopt growth-oriented, market-based economic reforms. Even the World Bank's longtime financial wizard, Eugene Rotberg -- who quit the bank for Merrill Lynch over Mr. Conable's reorganization plan -- proposed last month that the World Bank guarantee new 20-year commercial-bank loans to Third World countries. Yet even inside the bank, there is increasing worry that the Third World debt -- totaling $1.19 trillion last year -- frustrates the bank's goals. Because of chronic debt problems... the development process in these countries has stalled, the World Bank said earlier this year. Joseph Kennedy III, a Massachusetts Democrat, charges that the World Bank is just laundering funds that go back to the banks. 