Over the past two days, the British side also published a white paper and unilaterally made public the contents of last year's 17 rounds of Sino-British talks on the arrangements for the 1994-1995 elections in Hong Kong. These actions fully show that the British side has closed the door of negotiations between the two sides and is finally taking a road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system. Then Britain, under all sorts of pressure, agreed to hold talks with China in April last year on the arrangements for elections for 1994/1995 in Hong Kong. No matter how far the British side will walk along the road of confrontation with China on the issue of Hong Kong's political system, it absolutely cannot prevent the progress of history. CHINA stepped up the war of words over the future of Hong Kong yesterday, threatening to ignore the results of democratic elections proposed by Mr Chris Patten, the colony's governor, once it assumes control in 1997. Mr Lu Ping, China's senior official for Hong Kong affairs, said that if Mr Patten pressed ahead with his democratic reforms Beijing would start a 'new kitchen' in 1997 - a Chinese expression which means making a fresh start. In Hong Kong, Mr Patten reiterated his preparedness to hold talks with China about his proposed 1994-95 elections. Mr Philip Tose, the maverick Hong Kong financier, once offered Britain's Tory party Pounds 5m to remove Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor. But Hong Kong's passage from British colony to a 'special administrative region' of China still seems likely to be dogged by controversy. China's supporters in the colony claim that Mr Patten's policy is now to make Hong Kong harder to govern by 'loosening the screws' before the British leave. What Patten has said and done since he arrived in Hong Kong, including the international card, has been designed to meticulously carry through the third step laid down by the British Government. Chris Patten, the last governor of Hong Kong, has been trying hard to preserve an actual colonial position in Hong Kong and revitalize the colonialist power and prestige of the old British Empire. Language: <F P=105> Chinese </F> Article Type:CSO <F P=106> [Article by Hong Qingtian (3163 3237 3944): China, Britain, </F> Hong Kong At Crossroads of History ] [Excerpts] (Section 182) Patten took the initiative to define the relations between China and Hong Kong, giving substance to their contacts as well as clarifying the nature of such relations. In Section 172, he said....outstanding achievements have been scored on all fronts during the past year...with one lone exception, which was Hong Kong's effort to further its understanding with China and replace unproductive speculation with sincere trust. However, Director Lu Ping and Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten granted separate exclusive interviews to the Information Department of Hong Kong Television Broadcasts Limited and expressed their opinions on some issues in dispute between China and Britain. But after we read the regulations, we were not quite clear about some of them, about why they were written in certain ways, so we wished that the Hong Kong side could explain to us. The biggest issue in dispute between China and Britain now is Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's constitutional reform proposals. But why is the Chinese side so firm on this issue and why is this attitude made known even before the Hong Kong Legislative Council passes any election proposal? [Lu] Do these two recommendations indicate that those at the PWC or its members do not have a good idea of Hong Kong's reality or the agreements previously reached between China and Britain? [Lu] WHEN Mr Chris Patten, Hong Kong's newly-appointed governor, arrives in the colony in July he will find that, five years away from its reversion to Chinese sovereignty, Hong Kong is thriving. Last year, Hong Kong exported goods with a value of HKDollars 765.8bn of these HKDollars 534.8 were 're-exports', more than 80 per cent of which related to trade with China. He will also have to deal with Mr Lu Ping, head of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council, and China's most senior official in charge of day-to-day Hong Kong Affairs. On Friday, Lu Ping, China's top official on Hong Kong affairs, said Beijing would challenge the validity of future elections and abrogate agreements to build the colony's multi-billion dollar airport if Mr Patten proceeded without China's agreement. MR Chris Patten, Hong Kong's governor, yesterday gave China until the end of the year to accept his proposals for the colony's political development or to present alternatives that would be acceptable to the people of Hong Kong. After more than six hours of discussions with Lu Ping, director of the Chinese cabinet's office of Hong Kong and Macao affairs, Mr Patten said: 'I cannot say we reached a meeting of minds on what I put forward.' CHINA yesterday delivered an open challenge to Britain's continued administration of Hong Kong when it said it would repudiate all commercial agreements made by the colonial government that were not first agreed with Beijing. 