Few diamond-producing countries dare sell their output outside the organization, and some bold enough to leave have returned because of the difficulty in peddling diamonds alone. The organization buys rough diamonds from De Beers' own mines, which represent 30 percent of world production, and from producers in Tanzania, South Africa, Zaire, Botswana, Namibia, Australia and the Soviet Union. De Beers, which itself mines about 40 per cent of the world's annual rough diamond output, markets stones from Angola, Australia, Namibia, Tanzania, Zaire and the Soviet Union, as well as South Africa and Botswana. Apart from De Beers' own production from Namibia and South Africa, the CSO handles rough gem diamonds from Angola, Australia, Botswana, Russia, Tanzania and Zaire. De Beers has taken good care that merchant stocks have never again been built for speculative reasons, frequently going to the banks, the potential financiers of stockpiling operations, to 'educate' them about the way the diamond market works. The South African group eventually gave up its rights to River Ranch in 1991 after it failed to reach agreement with the Zimbabwe government about marketing the diamonds. The partners have spent about Dollars 850,000 to buy and move a heavy minerals separation plant recently decommissioned at the RTZ Corporation's diamond mine near Mafikeng, 500km away. While most of River Ranch's gem diamonds are small, typically under half a carat, the mine has yielded some big stones, the biggest so far being 29.6 carats. It, and the country's two other (smaller) diamond mines, between them account for 50 per cent of the government's revenue and 40 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. Turbulence in the global diamond markets is being felt even here at Venetia, De Beers' newest diamond mine, 30km from South Africa's borders with Botswana and Zimbabwe. Venetia's success is strategically important to De Beers because, when its output is added to that in Botswana and Namibia, it gives the group direct control over more than 50 per cent of world rough gem diamond output. Confounding predictions of its demise four years ago during the worst diamond slump since the 1930s, De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the South African concern that controls 80% of the world's uncut-diamond market, is thriving. The master sales plan began in 1938, when former De Beers Chairman Harry Oppenheimer asked Ayer to woo American couples to buy expensive diamond engagement rings. 