Statewide, the biggest fire threat looms in the chaparral-covered coastal mountains south of Santa Barbara, where the moisture content of trees and shrubs is the lowest ever recorded for this time of year, Boyd said. Officials at the federal Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho, which coordinates firefighting efforts throughout the West, said parts of 11 states in the far West, and North Dakota and Minnesota, also face major fire danger this year. Wildfire precautions The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection advises residents of rural areas to take special precautions to protect their homes from wildfires this summer: (box)Clear at least a 30-foot defensible space of brush and dry grass around your house. In general, firefighters say, the heavily wooded Santa Cruz Mountains are more susceptible to major fires than the grass-covered eastern foothills. And increasingly, fire officials worry about wildfires spreading into even more heavily populated areas at the base of the foothills, where numerous trees create an urban forest. Seven years later, the Los Altos Hills revolt against fire-retardant roofs still resonates in the mind of Los Altos Fire Chief Dick Landrum, whose department is charged with protecting the area. Prolonged drought, bark beetles and a rare fungus are drying out and killing brush and trees that surround many Southern California neighborhoods, creating the potential for one of the worst wildfire seasons in decades, fire officials warned Monday. The last really good rainfall was back in '82-83, so our brush really hasn't recuperated in seven years, said Gordon Rowley, a fire management specialist with the U.S. Forest Service. What You Can Do Fire officials have a number of recommendations for residents of areas where the wildfire danger is high: Clear brush and grass a minimum of 30 feet away from any buildings. It is sure to leave its mark on future fire and management policies not just at Yellowstone but throughout the vast system of national parks and wilderness areas. Under the changes, expected to be announced shortly by Bush Administration officials, all parks would have to run through a safety check list that includes an assessment of weather, moisture, winds and available firefighting crews before they could make a decision on whether or not to let a lightning fire burn. If (park superintendent) Barbee were here I'd choke him to death even today, said Betty Morton, a motel owner in tiny Cooke City, where the threat of fire forced a temporary evacuation last September. Combined, the researchers tested the lungs of more than 100 California wildland firefighters before and after the 1988 and 1989 fire seasons. The worst doses of carbon monoxide and other hazardous chemicals, which can be fatal, are given off when fires smolder, the stage in which firefighters spend most of their time, said Darold Ward, a U.S. Forest Service chemist. The California health department's tests on 63 firefighters showed they lost as much as 10% of their lung capacity during one six-month fire season, with an average loss of 4%. Firefighters themselves -- who traditionally have brandished the attitude that if you can't stand the heat, you get out of the fire -- are now demanding protection. The smallest particles, which are the most dangerous to lungs, are found in smoldering fires, where firefighters spend most of their time. 