Periodic springtime eruptions of some volcanoes have been associated with melting snow seeping into the ground and reacting with molton lava below the ground, scientists have suggested. And airliners' windows may be etched by acid, as happened after the 1982 eruption of Mexico's El Chichon volcano, said Toon, of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center in Mountain View. Eight years after a volcano scare incited fear, anger and economic gloom in Sierra resorts, residents are nonchalant about renewed underground lava movement that is triggering thousands of tiny earthquakes. Despite the current activity, the probability of a major earthquake or a volcanic eruption in the area is less than 1 percent each year, said David Hill, the U.S. Geological Survey geophysicist in charge of research at Long Valley. The continuous eruption of Hawaii's Kilauea since 1983 has caused more than Dollars 5m in damage, much of it to properties and crops affected by the acid-bearing volcanic pollutants. Over about 70 million years, the continuous movement of the Pacific plate over this stationary fountain of fire left a trail of more than 80 big volcanoes over the floor of the Pacific Ocean. Geophysicists Helen Rymer and Geoff Brown of the Open University in Milton Keynes, England, believe that measurements of very small changes in gravity -- called microgravity -- can be used to predict eruptions of certain types of volcanoes like Poas. The researchers do not know what happened to gravity levels after the eruption because their funding expired at about the same time the volcano erupted. Although Japanese researchers have some preliminary evidence of increases in microgravity before volcanic eruptions, Eggers found that microgravity actually decreased at Pacayo volcano in Guatemala before an eruption 10 years ago. Scientists say the eruption of Mount St. Helens, which killed 57 people and caused $1 billion in property damage, triggered a renaissance in volcano research. American scientists have since responded to a number of volcanic awakenings throughout the world, from Galunggung in Indonesia to Nevado del Ruiz in Colombia, improving their ability to quickly evaluate volcano hazards. Tools give clues that can save lives The basic tools of volcano monitoring are cheaper and more portable than they were 10 years ago. 