And Dr. Paul Blackman, spokesman for the National Rifle Association in Washington, D.C., criticized the study for not looking at the period before Vancouver's new gun control laws went into effect in 1978. More than 90 percent (of the guns used in New York crimes) come from other states with very weak laws, Whitmore said. After seven long years, the US Congress this week passed its first significant gun control law since the assassinations of Mr Robert Kennedy and Rev Martin Luther King Jr in 1968. Such beliefs have led the NRA to campaign against restrictions on machine guns, assault weapons and armour-piercing bullets. Second, the NRA's insistence on combating any gun control, even that viewed as reasonable by a majority not just of the US population but of gun-owners, has driven away some former political and police supporters. According to a Gallup poll earlier this year, 57 per cent of people who said they had a gun in their house also favoured stricter laws on the sale of firearms. Over the NRA's opposition, Congress and state legislatures have enacted legislation banning cop-killer bullets that penetrate protective vests, plastic guns that can be slipped past metal detectors and Saturday night specials that are used in many crimes. AS PAT JONAS signed the petition in the gun store near Phoenix, one could witness the NRA's true political power: mobilizing citizens at the grass roots. Charles J. Orasin, president of 15-year-old Handgun Control -- the NRA's chief nemesis -- estimates that as many as 500,000 members of the NRA and other gun groups regularly lobby elected officials and bureaucrats. Time and again, the NRA has proved that citizen action generated by such mailings can have far more effect on legislation than opinion polls, especially when a majority for gun control is relatively silent. Lies and Exaggerations GUN OWNERS' rage spread quickly after the NRA letter hit Arizona the last week of April. Finally, as NRA Washington lobbyist Baker had done in his letter to Arizona gun owners, Hammer charged that a loosely worded definition in the Florida bill would inadvertently ban all semiautomatic rifles and shotguns. After all, two years earlier, Hammer had led a phenomenal victory for the NRA in Florida, winning passage of measures that threw out all locally imposed gun restrictions. The move was aimed at shattering the NRA's claim that only cosmetic differences exist between assault weapons and sporting guns. Shortly after adjourning, the Legislature was called back into special session to reconsider a bill that would make it illegal for gun owners to carelessly leave weapons around children. Inside the eight-story building, many of the 365 employees worked on gun-safety courses, shooting competitions, police firearms training and other services that predominated at the NRA until heavy lobbying against gun control began in the 1970s. In his seventh-floor office, Jim Baker -- one of five in-house lobbyists supplemented by four high-powered outsiders -- had put the finishing touches on his letter to Arizona gun owners, slamming DeConcini's bill. If New Jersey's mandatory background check for handgun purchases has caught 10,000 convicted felons trying to buy handguns, how could I honestly tell myself that gun control isn't crime control? By opposing moderate measures like the Brady Bill -- which public opinion research shows 87 percent of gun owners favor -- the leadership of the NRA has made its congressional supporters patsies in a game of lethal consequences. 