I didn't see how I could get 60 percent, knowing the number of people who were saying in the surveys that they thought I was a good governor but were concerned about the tenure issue, Clinton said recently. While the biggest complaint against Clinton appears to be that he has been in office too long, the governor also has been accused of being more interested in his national ambitions than state concerns. Now, the FOBs are focusing on next week's critical tests in Illinois, where Mr. Clinton's law school moot court opponent is helping organize the state, and Michigan, where a former roommate is doing likewise. Harold Ickes, the New York lawyer who helped manage Jesse Jackson's 1988 campaign and is working the state for Mr. Clinton this year, met him in Project Pursestrings, an anti-Vietnam War effort launched after the 1972 election. In 1978, when Mr. Clinton became his state's youngest governor at the age of 32, he invited many of his old friends to his inauguration and even appointed some of them to state jobs. An array of former governors, including James Blanchard of Michigan and Richard Riley of South Carolina, have put their old organizations to work for Mr. Clinton. The group grew rapidly and includes such disparate members as Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun, liberal New York attorney and Kennedy insider Theodore Sorensen and David Gergen, another journalist with whom Mr. Clinton is on friendly terms. Will Marshall, president of the DLC-affiliated Progressive Policy Institute, worries that with so many campaign cooks and so many competing agendas, Mr. Clinton's message has lost some of its resolution of late. GOVERNOR Bill Clinton of Arkansas was gambling yesterday that an extraordinary prime-time television confession of 'wrongdoing' in his marriage has salvaged his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. In the closing stages of the election campaign President George Bush is trying to win votes by convincing the public that Mr Bill Clinton has made a hash of governing Arkansas. The Arkansas economy has revived during the Clinton years, creating jobs faster than the nation, especially in the past three years. Adding to interest in the case, the Clintons' Whitewater files were handled by Mr Vincent Foster, the deputy White House counsel who committed suicide last year. Another poll published by USA Today and CNN showed Mr Clinton's approval rating holding steady at 54 per cent, and 72 per cent said Whitewater had had no effect on their opinion. By the time he got back, Senate President Pro Tem Nick Wilson, a Democratic adversary with scores to settle, had made 20 appointments to state boards and, for good measure, demoted Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, Betsy Wright. Bill Clinton was riding high, at age 32 the nation's youngest governor, his unsuccessful congressional bid of 1974 only a memory. Ms. Wright, who directed the 1986 Clinton campaign, argues that the governor's popularity with Arkansans would be the least of his gambles if he runs for the White House. By the time I was governor at 32 I had already lived three years longer than my father, says Mr. Clinton, now 45 years old. From the start, William Jefferson Blythe IV -- he sneaked off to a chancery judge at 15 to take the name Clinton, his stepfather's -- was an introspective young man his best friend once said he didn't want to go over to the Clintons' house and watch Bill read. Mr. Clinton, who had seen some of the world during an internship with Senate Foreign Relations Chairman J. William Fulbright of Arkansas and during a Rhodes Scholarship, had big ideas. Mr. Clinton was elected attorney general, battled corporations and the 25-cent telephone call, and was catapulted to the governor's office. Many young men with Mr. Clinton's educational background found ways to avoid military service during the Vietnam War. Mr. Holmes, who counts himself as a political independent, says Mr. Clinton's true plans weren't ever made plain to him he thought Mr. Clinton's arrival was imminent. 