Efforts to begin pumping 200,000 gallons of oil off the Exxon Valdez onto another tanker, the Exxon Baton Rouge, were halted early Saturday when authorities noticed that oil appeared to leaking as the pumping operation proceeded. A Long Beach-bound Exxon oil tanker ran aground on a reef Friday and spilled an estimated 8.4 million gallons of crude oil into Alaska's Prince William Sound, a pristine Pacific waterway heavily used by kayakers, fishermen and tourists. Valdez City Manager Doug Griffen told the Associated Press that the 800-mile trans-Alaska pipeline, which carries oil from Prudhoe Bay to Valdez and the marine terminal, has a good environmental record. An unqualified mate was piloting the Exxon Valdez -- violating both Coast Guard regulations and company policy -- when the tanker crashed into rocks, unleashing the worst oil spill in U.S. history, Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday. Wildlife experts were summoned from California to coordinate any efforts to rescue birds and sea otters, whose feathers and fur make them the most vulnerable to oil contamination. Exxon salvage crews successfully refloated the stricken tanker Exxon Valdez on Wednesday as the former captain of the vessel surrendered to authorities in New York to face criminal charges in the massive oil spill. Even so, Exxon officials warned in advance that refloating the ship could uncover additional oil that had been pinned in pockets between the ship's hull and rocky Bligh Reef. Equipment must be dedicated to oil-spill cleanup only. -- The names of 12 oil spill-response team members who do nothing but respond to oil spills and who are available for such duty 24 hours a day. The Alyeska companies' offer included the immediate start of random drug and alcohol testing on board ships and the continued use of two-tugboat escorts beyond Bligh Reef, the shallows into which the Exxon Valdez crashed March 24 before leaking 240,000 barrels of oil into ecologically sensitive Prince William Sound. 11-Million-Gallon Spill The Senate action came five weeks after the tanker Exxon Valdez struck a reef, spewing more than 11 million gallons of crude oil into the fish- and wildlife-rich sound. The calm waters of Prince William Sound have stymied efforts to disperse the largest oil spill in U.S. history, which spewed from a ship that ran aground trying to avoid chunks of ice, officials said. An oil slick snaked about five miles from the ship as wind and tide pushed the crude oil into the sound and away from shore. The tanker that caused the nation's biggest oil spill was being illegally piloted by its third mate when the vessel ran aground on a reef, Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday. The only larger oil-related accident in U.S. waters was the spilling and burning of up to 10.7 million gallons of oil when two ships collided in Galveston Bay in 1979. By late Sunday, Exxon officials said a total of 37,500 barrels of oil had been transferred in the first two days of the operation, leaving more than 900,000 barrels on the ship. Exxon crews Tuesday finished pumping the remaining crude oil out of the tanker Exxon Valdez in preparation for refloating and removing the source of the nation's worst-ever oil spill. Exxon officials Monday released a revised plan for cleansing 364 miles of Alaskan coastline fouled by the nation's largest oil spill, but said their proposal requires a suspension of local environmental laws. Exxon's 60-page, two-part revised strategy to cleanse some 364 miles of Alaska's coastline of the oil spilled March 24 by the tanker Exxon Valdez was released Monday. The state sued, claiming the company was negligent in responding to the spill, only to be countersued by Exxon, which claimed state officials hindered the use of chemical dispersants that could have broken up large quantities of oil early on. State officials cite an October survey that showed 117 miles of shoreline remained moderately or heavily oiled, with oil more than two feet deep in some spots. Exxon officials, meanwhile, say their winter monitoring of 64 sites shows wind and waves have scoured away, on average, more than half the surface oil left in September, and up to 80 percent of the buried oil. Without the cleanup charge and accounting gain, Exxon said its net income for the year would have been $4.7 billion, down 10.6% from 1988, despite higher oil and gas prices. 