LIMA -- On June 4, I was among a group of journalists who were told that the war against the Shining Path ( Sendero Luminoso ) guerrillas had almost been won. Nevertheless, it was a very important and unexpected police coup against the Shining Path -- one that probably could have brought dramatic results if President Alan Garcia had not decided to make public the operation so soon after the first police intervention, in order to score a quick propaganda gain. This impulsiveness gave full warning to the guerrillas' entire clandestine apparatus, allowing them to limit considerably the damage inflicted on them. </LP> <TEXT> As Alberto Fujimori prepares to take over as Peru's next president on July 28, the question of whether the Shining Path will hound his administration as it has the previous two ranks high among his concerns. The Shining Path went to war in 1980, on the same day Peru was holding general elections after 12 years of a military dictatorship. While President Fernando Belaunde's regime did what it could to maintain democratic legality at first, it was quite unprepared to deal with any insurgency -- especially with one that had been meticulously planned and organized several years before the first shot was fired. In October 1981, emergency laws were imposed for the first time on part of Peru; they covered only 2% of the population. In 10 years, the war between the Shining Path and the government has cost about 20,000 lives. There are no kind words for Mr. Garcia, on the other hand. At first, he tried a liberal approach, looking for a dialogue with the fanatical Shining Path, and sending scores of young professionals to the emergency areas to attack what he said were the root causes of the insurgency. And for the first time, death squads -- linked by some analysts to Mr. Garcia's APRA Party -- began to contribute to the killing. Midpoint during his term, Mr. Garcia lost all hope of defeating the Shining Path, and decided just to coexist with it, says Rafael Merino, a respected analyst on security matters. In 1988, 1,986 people were killed as a result of insurgent or counterinsurgent actions; in 1989, 3,198 were killed; and 1,730 during the first six months of 1990. His campaign pitch advocated an approach closely resembling that of Mr. Garcia's first year. According to Francisco Loayza, Mr. Fujimori's adviser on internal-security matters, military actions against the Shining Path should be subordinated to economic-development initiatives. {The military} should mainly provide security for development projects, Mr. Loayza says. Mr. Loayza says that President Garcia's approach failed because of corruption and ineptitude. He also feels that the Shining Path is weakened, and that an important Shining Path faction would be willing to engage in peace talks. This is only wishful thinking, according to Mr. Merino: If President Fujimori thinks he'll finish the war through those 'pacification' policies, it will be like riding into battle with no better dress or weapons than a tuxedo. 