If Robert Bork's Supreme Court confirmation hearings this week can be said to have had a moment of epiphany, it came Wednesday morning. That is when Judge Bork was explaining to Sen. Judge Bork isn't Justice Holmes, though he is probably one of the half-dozen best qualified Supreme Court nominees since Holmes. Judge Bork defended himself well this week, with scholarly precision and often with humor, but in Washington reasonableness alone is not enough to win a seat on the Court. A group known as People for the American Way papered Washington with ads headlining the case of Robert Bork vs. The People, suggesting, apparently, that anyone who supports Judge Bork opposes the people, not to mention the American way. The same ads implied that Judge Bork had no objection to sterilizing workers, didn't believe in any right to privacy, and just might Turn the clock back on civil rights? The questioning, however, left little doubt about its goal -- to suggest that Judge Bork cares not at all for the rights of women, of minorities, of the press, or of pretty much anyone else. Judge Bork explained -- as he has dozens of times before -- his moral dilemma in seeking as solicitor general to follow the orders of a president, yet also keep the special prosecutor team from disbanding. Isn't Judge Bork beyond the pale, implied Sen. Judge Bork had to explain that, yes, there are all kinds of privacy rights in the Constitution (the First, 4th and 5th amendments, for example), but he didn't believe there is any generalized, undefined right. Isn't Judge Bork in effect a racist because he once opposed that part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that outlawed discrimination in public places? implied Sen. Judge Bork explained that he was concerned at the time about government coercion in private decisions, but that he had retracted that position more than a decade ago. Judge Bork's supporters in the White House believe that all of this helped his cause, that it proved he wasn't, as one put it, a neanderthal. If Judge Bork is not confirmed, however, the record of this week suggests that the reason will result less from his own failings than from the ferocity and distortions of his opponents. 