Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait's ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods. Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food and other goods from going in. Though they insist they aren't trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him in retaliation. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling on Arabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to have three choices. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America's close ties with Israel. Iraq's third attack option would be to start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S. If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein. But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must. Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein's proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt. There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he's up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. The unpredictability of Iraq's leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. But the administration isn't putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. 