In an episode of high drama, Judge Clarence Thomas, who was only hours away from winning a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, and Anita Hill, who says he made her a victim of sexual harassment, begin to tell their versions of the story this morning before the Senate Judiciary Committee and an audience of millions. </LP> <TEXT> The proceedings will be carried live on ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, public television and cable outlets. In the narrowest sense, Judge Thomas and Ms. Hill are staking their own reputations, personal credibility and careers on this session. Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill are not the only public figures on trial. The players in today's drama could pursue a number of strategies, each with enormous risks: Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas has to answer whether he dated, or tried to date, Ms. Hill. Clarence Thomas has to personally address these issues with a conviction and purposefulness that will resolve these questions, she says. Anita Hill The University of Oklahoma law professor began this with confidential allegations that Judge Thomas had subjected her to sexual harassment when she served as his personal assistant at the Education Department. How will she explain why she continued to work for Judge Thomas after the purported incidents -- and especially why she followed him to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from their previous jobs? She has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired. The witnesses Judge Thomas has summoned on his behalf will seek to pick her story apart, citing telephone log comments indicating that Ms. Hill just called to say hello or needs your advice on getting research grants or wanted to congratulate on marriage. Ms. Hill will need to convincingly explain or refute those messages, as well as reports that have Judge Thomas, for example, helping her land a job on the law faculty at Oral Roberts University. And Ms. Hill will also be asked why she didn't broach her sexual-harassment charges in confirmation hearings for earlier posts that Judge Thomas won. Ms. Hill will have to defend her own credibility forcefully. President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment? Presidential advisers are counseling Mr. Bush to stay away from the dispute over whether Judge Thomas is guilty of the charges of sexual harassment. The Democratic questioners The Democrats will have to look as if they're trying to get the truth -- not as if they're trying to get Judge Thomas. Patrick Leahy of Vermont is a former prosecutor who seemed to have disbelieved much of what Judge Thomas said in his hearings. He is already on record as criticizing the nominee for fleeing from his record, arguing that Judge Thomas jettisoned one public statement after another like a captain trying to keep his ship afloat. Mr. Leahy has complained that Judge Thomas's advisers counseled him to play it safe, and that the tactic did not fulfill Judge Thomas's responsibility to the nation. The Republican questioners They want to support Judge Thomas without appearing to be winking at sexual harassment. And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, he can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, like Mr. Leahy a former prosecutor, has already spoken to Judge Thomas about Ms. Hill's charges. Specter will want to be sure that Judge Thomas didn't lie to him. He voted against Judge Bork but for David Souter, and supported Judge Thomas in the committee vote. He is likely to deplore sexual harassment but ask why Ms. Hill waited to come forward. The Thomas handlers Although the White House is arguing that Judge Thomas is preparing his defense himself, the team that prepped the nominee for his hearings is under enormous pressure to redeem itself and salvage the situation. The group's strategy was to portray Judge Thomas as a person of extraordinary character, playing down questions of his experience and scholarship, and they didn't anticipate an attack on what they regarded his strongest flank. Moreover, the group's strategy of having Judge Thomas be as general and evasive as possible during the hearings -- insisting at one point that he had no opinion on the Supreme Court's landmark abortion ruling -- created a credibility problem that has haunted the nomination. Concerns about Judge Thomas's forthrightness cost him some votes he might otherwise have won -- and left him more vulnerable when the sexual-harassment issue erupted. The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination. Civil-rights groups that have opposed Judge Thomas are in an especially awkward position. 