A tour de force or a tourist trap?; A year behind schedule and five years in the making, Biosphere 2 has forged ahead despite questions about its credibility, charges of cultism and accusations that leaders bullied departed consultants.; The creation of billionaire oil mogul Edward Bass, Biosphere 2 aims to study how people can live in an airtight world. Detractors snicker that Biosphere 2 could be the greatest stunt since War of the Worlds. ; I don't know what they are attempting to do, said Robert D. MacElroy, a scientist at NASA/Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, where plans for a small space cottage are in their infancy.; MacElroy has visited the Biosphere 2 project and said, There's a pretty grotesque size differential to what we're involved in. But Biosphere 2 has a structure that can be used and studied for 100 years. ; Looking like Hollywood's Battlestar Gallactica, the gleaming steel-and-glass shell of Biosphere 2 is as long as three football fields and as tall as a five-story building. They seemed unperturbed by continuing questions from reporters about the project's credibility.; News reports since 1985 have linked the project's leaders to a 1970s commune where, some ex-commune members say, Biosphere 2 executive John Allen led a cult devoted to creating a new civilization. One was the Institute of Ecotechnics in London, billed by Biosphere 2 as a major-ecological think-tank. Several of Biosphere 2's leaders have unaccredited degrees from the institute.; Institute non-existent; A Canadian television documentary last year went looking for the institute and found only an office over a cafe and art gallery.; Allen and Bass could not be reached for comment. In the past, Bass has denied being influenced by Allen, who told the Arizona Daily Star in June that he never operated any mystical program. ; The whole cult thing is ridiculous, said Kathleen Dyhr, spokeswoman for Biosphere 2. There have been so many people with Biosphere 2 who never had anything to do with John Allen 20 years ago. ; During construction, Biosphere 2 recruited outside consultants from such reputable institutions as Yale University and the Smithsonian, Dyhr said. It's already the state's second largest tourist attraction after the Grand Canyon, and promoters are banking that more than a million people a year will visit.; In fact, in the first five months of 1991, 65,000 people came to see the project, a hundredfold increase over the same period in 1990.; Shown a movie and taken on a walking tour for $9.95, visitors mostly gush over the landscape and rarely ask probing questions. 