Between the invasion of Kuwait last August and the end of the Gulf war, many brave souls inside and outside the U.S. government worried about clever stratagems that Saddam Hussein might employ to defeat the U.S. Well, Saddam Hussein may be twice as brutal as Lenin, but he is only one-tenth as smart. Now, for the coming final round in Bush vs. Saddam, I certainly wouldn't place my bets on the half-witted Butcher of Baghdad. Even if the president wanted to, he could not walk away from Iraq's internal affairs. Saddam Hussein will, of course, try to turn America's victory into a Pyrrhic one. Even though the Bush administration's response to the new challenge has been mysteriously slow and inept, Saddam Hussein's most recent depredations have killed his last chance to plead for magnanimity in victory, or to posture himself as the lesser evil, who would, at least, give us the blessings of stability in Iraq. It is most implausible that Saddam Hussein could survive as Iraq's dictator and comply with these terms. When Saddam Hussein is told to hand to the U.N. a list of all his prohibited weapons as a first step in complying with the ceasefire, he might well respond by arguing: (1) Iraq never had any of these weapons, (2) if it had, American bombing raids have destroyed every one of them, and (3) if there were remaining weapons, all records have been burned by Kurdish terrorists. Saddam Hussein may not realize it, but as he begins to obstruct, violate and sabotage the U.N. implementation of the ceasefire agreement, he must take on not just some bureaucrats at U.N. headquarters and the U.N. flag. Since Mr. Bush has just succeeded in turning the U.N. into a useful instrument for enhancing world order, he can't let Saddam Hussein steal his success. For this to be true, Saddam Hussein must not be allowed to slam the window shut. The U.S. is committed to support the U.N., and the U.N. is now committed to inserting itself deeply into the internal affairs of Iraq. It will also determine the final winner in the contest between George Bush and Saddam Hussein. --- Mr. Ikle, now with the Center for Strategic &amp; International Studies in Washington, D.C., was Undersecretary of Defense in the Reagan Defense Department. 