A bill signed into law Monday by President Reagan will sharply restrict employers' use of polygraph tests. Currently, about two million U.S. workers annually take such tests when applying for jobs or when companies are investigating theft or other employee violations. Critics of polygraph testing, who claim it's both unreliable and subject to potential abuse, are welcoming the restrictions. Because of the new law, employers who have relied heavily on lie detectors will have to resort to such alternatives as written tests that are designed to gauge a person's honesty, and background checks of job applicants -- something that critics of polygraphs say they should have been doing in the first place. Such testing isn't confined to low-level employees, according to the Securities Industry Association. Managers and other white-collar workers in the securities industry have been subject to polygraph tests where circumstances warrant, the trade group says, adding that the decision to test hinges on the employee's access to negotiable instruments, currency or securities -- not on the employee's rank. While he was chairman of the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission, John Shad testified in a congressional hearing on polygraph testing that brokerage houses need to keep using lie detectors to protect trillions of dollars of securities. Widespread polygraph testing of bank workers and executives will also be curtailed. The law is expected to have a significant impact as well on the companies that actually administer the tests. Mr. Kaufman asserts that even the use of lie-detector tests when there has been a theft, which will still be permitted under the new law, will end because employers will have to do such things as give an employee a written statement to the effect that he is reasonably suspected of stealing. One banker who will be glad of the new restrictions is Peter Persaud, who says he was denied a job as a vice president of Amerifirst Bank in Miami after twice flunking polygraph tests early this year. I think the polygraph test is designed to make an honest person seem dishonest because of the way it is administered, Mr. Persaud says. Other employees, too, cite problems arising from polygraph tests. Mr. Darby says he took the test for fear he would be dismissed if he didn't. Mr. Darby quit, vowing he would never take another polygraph exam. Zale's policy, a spokeswoman explains, is to do very selective polygraph testing during an investigation of suspected theft or loss. 