It was a scene that recalled the golden days for Ben Johnson. Johnson was as before, shy and yet brimming with confidence. The new element was the pervasive skepticism that now attends Johnson's boasts. Johnson will at last get his chance to do that. It has been two years since Johnson, then world record-holder at 100 meters, was stripped of his gold medal after testing positive for anabolic steroids at the Seoul Olympics. Johnson was also suspended from competition for two years; that suspension ends today. 11 that will mark Johnson's return to competition. It is this apparent contradiction that Ben Johnson must overcome in his comeback. Charlie Francis, who coached Johnson for 12 years, estimated that steroids made Johnson faster by one meter. Johnson, speaking at a news conference in Castelfranco Veneto, Italy, expressed little doubt he can regain his form of 1988. I want to take back the titles and the records I have been deprived of, the Associated Press quoted Johnson as saying. BIG MONEY Promoters of indoor meets this season doubt that Johnson will regain his records, but they hope that fans will turn out in huge numbers to watch him try. Indeed, in a season that holds the promise of high performance levels in general (as athletes peak for the world indoor championships in Seville, Spain, in March), Johnson's return to competition might help rejuvenate a sport in need of public interest. Al Franken, promoter of the Sunkist Invitational, is close to signing Johnson for his Jan. 18 meet, saying Johnson will receive the highest appearance fee Franken has ever paid -- $30,000, compared to the $23,000 Franken paid Carl Lewis. And there is a bonus in the contract that rewards Johnson for high attendance figures. Transcendent is the word for the appearence fees Johnson will reportedly earn. Howard Schmertz of the Millrose Games in New York has an interest in Johnson, but perhaps not the budget. Johnson reportedly will be paid $10,000 (Canadian) for the meet in Hamilton, a figure that has caused some jealousy among his peers. Hamilton promoter Gaines has heard it before, and makes no apology for paying Johnson more than other athletes. Right now, I can't think of anybody who would arouse as much interest as Ben Johnson. It would be ironic if Johnson becomes the star who revitalizes indoor track and field after being blamed for the steady decline of sponsor interest in outdoor track. I can't say that it's wrong, especially when deep down I know Johnson's not the only one who's ever taken drugs. One thing that may not happen is a much-discussed lucrative match race between Johnson and Lewis. A NEW CAST Johnson, 28, has passed at least four drug tests during his suspension. Many of those around Johnson have changed, too. The key words in the Johnson camp are Damage Control, or more simply, control. Futerman limits Johnson's contact with the media, saying Ben has said all he has to say. However, it was Futerman who offered to permit a British journalist to interview Johnson -- if he paid $10,000 and submitted his questions in advance. Johnson gave an in-depth interview to the German magazine, Sport, but only after being paid. He still is awaiting word from the Canadian Olympic Assn., which placed a lifetime ban on Johnson that prohibited him from representing Canada in the Olympic Games. That may go a long way to easing Johnson back into a sport that disowned him almost as swiftly as he burst on the scene. What happened to Johnson after his positive test in Seoul is similar to what used to happen to famous East Europeans after defection. Similarly, Johnson was erased from track and field's record books. The IAAF voted last September to adopt the controversial Ben Johnson Rule allowing the IAAF Council to decertify an athlete's records, titles and results if he or she later is shown to have used a banned substance before those performances. The action gave the IAAF power to erase all of Johnson's results between June 12, 1983, and June 12, 1989. Even though Johnson admitted to having taken drugs since 1981, the rule carries a six-year statue of limitations. The rule stripped Johnson of his world record of 9.83 in the 100 meters and 6.41 in the indoor 60 meters. The question remains, is Ben Johnson capable of running at that brilliant level again? If the public will pay to watch Johnson is another question. Will he be the same Johnson? 