A predawn earthquake in Soviet Central Asia unleashed a 50-foot-high wall of dirt and mud that buried a mountain village and swept through at least two others Monday, killing up to 1,000 people as they slept, officials said. The devastating earthquake in the republic of Tadzhikistan was the second to strike the Soviet Union in two months. Sharora "had more than 150 peasant households before that tragic moment," the Soviet news agency Tass reported. "Rescue work is being continued and distant mountain villages have not been checked yet," Tass said. The quake struck the southwestern part of Tadzhikistan, a Soviet republic of more than 4.8 million people that borders Afghanistan and China. EST Sunday) was centered about 20 to 30 miles southwest of Tadzhikistan's capital of Dushanbe, a city of more than 460,000 people, in the fertile Gissar district, a center of grapegrowing and livestock-raising, Tass said. An official at Dushanbe's seismic center said the quake was strong enough to knock things off shelves in tall apartment buildings in the city, but that it caused no known damage or injuries there. 7 earthquake in northwestern Armenia, 1,300 miles west of Dushanbe, registered a 6.9 on the Richter scale and killed 25,000 people. The earthquake unhinged a wall of sodden dirt and mud at least five miles wide that buried the village of Okuli-Bolo and much of Sharora, said Erkin Kasimov, an official of Tadzhikistan's Foreign Ministry. Residents of another village, Okuli-Poyen, apparently roused in time, fled in panic before the mudslide, which traveled 1\ to 1{ miles, could reach their homes, Kasimov said from Dushanbe. More than 70 villagers were buried by the landslide, it said. It said all of the village's streets had been buried under the 50-foot-high layer of earth that the earthquake detached from a hill near the village. But the official at the Dushanbe seismic center said families are traditionally large in the mostly Moslem republic, and that one dwelling often houses eight to 10 people. The quake and landslide downed three miles of power lines, destroyed nine miles of telephone lines and inundated four miles of a navigation canal with mud, Kasimov said. "When the earthquake came, it was like a catapult, and it hurled the sodden earth onto the villages below," Kasimov said. "Our sympathy certainly goes out again to the victims of this most recent earthquake," he said. Soviet officials, including Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnaze, initially spoke of "thousands" of victims in the Armenian quake. 