Unfortunately, there is the Second Amendment to the Constitution: A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed. Since the amendment's stated purpose is arming state militias, they reason, it creates no individual right to own a gun. True, that purpose is not inscribed in the amendment itself. A colleague says that if liberals interpreted the Second Amendment the way they interpret the rest of the Bill of Rights, there would be law professors arguing that gun ownership is mandatory. The most thorough parsing of the Second Amendment is a 1983 article in the Michigan Law Review by Don Kates, a gun enthusiast. Kates expends most energy demonstrating that at the time of the Bill of Rights, all able-bodied men were considered to be part of the militia and were expected to defend the state if necessary. The fact that once upon a time everyone was a member of the militia doesn't prove that everyone still has a right to a gun even after the composition of the militia has changed. The phrase right of the people appears four other times in the Bill of Rights (including the First Amendment). In all these other cases, everyone agrees that it creates a right for individual citizens, not just some collective right of states as a whole. Kates also marshals impressive historical evidence that the Second Amendment, like other Bill of Rights protections, was intended to incorporate English common law rights of the time, which pretty clearly included the right to keep a gun in your home for reasons having nothing to do with the militia. Of course the existence of an individual right to own guns doesn't mean that it is absolute. The downside of having a Bill of Rights is that the protection of individual rights usually entails social costs. It would be remarkable indeed if none of the Bill of Rights became less sensible and more burdensome with time. Gun nuts are unconvincing (at least to me) in their attempts to argue that the individual right to bear arms is still as vital to freedom as it was in 1792. 