Mad Cow disease was probably first observed on a farm in Kent in 1985, when four animals were put down after they were observed drooling, staggering before collapsing. MAFF scientists concluded that BSE had appeared in cattle given processed feed that included remains of diseased sheep. Cattle confirmed as having BSE have been put down and incinerated, with the ashes being buried. In 1989 a further ban was introduced, on cattle offal sold for human consumption. That year it was officially predicted that 20,000 animals would be affected before the feed ban, together with the drying up of any supplies already on farms, had its effect. The Ministry of Agriculture said yesterday that by the beginning of last week the total number of cattle diagnosed since November 1986 as having BSE had risen to 121,898 -- six times the original prediction. The ministry believes that the reason more cattle have died is that farmers or food renderers kept using infected feed after the ban. Last week, MAFF said that the numbers of confirmed BSE cases in the first two months of this year showed a 20 per cent drop over the same period in 1993 -- proof, the ministry says, that the epidemic is waning. Some 8,004 cattle have died from BSE despite being born after the feed ban was introduced. Mark Purdey, a Somerset farmer and independent researcher, believes that the use of organophosphate pesticides, used from the 1980s as a sheep dip and to treat warble-fly infestation in cattle, could have damaged the animals' immune system, exposing them to the disease. More recently, researchers have suggested that in some cattle, BSE has been vertically transmitted from cow to calf. This month 19 cattle have died on farms where MAFF is conducting a seven-year experiment into the disease. There is no evidence that this disturbing disease can be transferred from cow to calf, Farmers Weekly insisted last week. Mr North said: We have more than 8,000 cattle born after the feed ban that have subsequently contracted BSE. If the disease has jumped from sheep to cattle -- and cases have also been reported in kudu antelope at London Zoo -- could it affect humans? 