A crippled United Airlines DC-10 crashed a half-mile short of a runway while trying to make an emergency landing Wednesday afternoon, bursting into a cartwheeling fireball that broke into what one eyewitness described as 15,000 pieces and killing at least 123 of the 293 passengers and crew members on board. Tail Engine Explodes The plane's tail engine exploded before the crash but it was not immediately clear how the explosion contributed to what a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman called complete hydraulic failure, an occurrence regarded as extremely rare in the wide-bodied DC-10, which has three independent hydraulic systems that operate all the plane's control surfaces on its wings and tail, and landing gear and brakes. The survivors of Wednesday's United Flight 232 from Denver to Philadelphia via Chicago included several dozen passengers who managed to walk out of a dark, smoke-filled, upside-down section of the jet after it broke off and came to rest in a tall cornfield off the runway. I walked out (through the back of the plane) and found myself in the cornfield, passenger David Landsberger told Cable News Network. Suitcases, paper, mail, clothes, chunks of burning metal and bodies were strewn over the inactive runway at Sioux Gateway Airport, where the plane crashed after desperately circling for a half-hour. United Airlines declined to comment on the number of survivors or to release the names of the 282 passengers and 11 crew members. Eyewitnesses said pieces of the 15-year-old airplane -- one of the oldest airliners in United's fleet -- were falling off as far as 75 miles from the site of the crash. A team of National Transportation Safety Board investigators left Washington Wednesday night for Sioux City. There were reports from passengers and observers that the plane's right-wing engine also failed before the crash. In what survivors described as a heroic effort that nearly succeeded, the plane's Seattle-based captain, A. C. Haynes -- a 33-year veteran of the airline who along with the other 10 crew members survived the crash -- struggled for a half-hour to maintain control of the wobbling plane. Radio transmission indicated the plane's maneuverability was limited to right-hand turns. Preparing for Crash Landing Then they said we were preparing for a crash landing. They said it would be about 30 seconds, but it was about five minutes, another passenger said. Haynes brought the plane into the airport's 9,000-foot-long southwest runway, surrounded by corn, soybeans and pasture with some trees seven miles outside downtown Sioux City. CDT, the plane made its final approach. Shortly before touchdown the plane's right wing began to dip and the nose began to fall. The wing hit the ground a half-mile before the runway. I think it landed upside down, said passenger Melanie Cincala of Toledo, Ohio, who said the plane burst into flames after she got off. 'Push Little Girl Out' Then God opened a hole in the basement (the bottom of the plane) and I pushed a little girl out. Survival Rate Remarkable C. O. Miller, former chief investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board, said the crash's survival rate was remarkable and was probably the result of the pilot's ability to maneuver the plane close to the ground before losing complete control. He said the huge mass of the DC-10 must have helped the pilot slow the plane as it approached the ground and helped keep portions of it intact. He said a smaller plane, such as a DC-9, would have been far more likely to break up more severely. Lavonne Quirin of Alta, in Buena Vista County, 75 miles from the airport, said she and her husband found a cone-shaped section of the plane in a cornfield at their seed corn business. McDonnell Douglas Corp., which builds the DC-10, said the plane was delivered to United in 1974. A DC-10 was involved in the nation's worst air crash 10 years ago. On May 25, 1979, American Airlines Flight 191 lost an engine on takeoff, banked sideways out of control, slammed into a field and exploded. All 258 passengers and 13 crew members died, as well as two people on the ground. DC-10 orders collapsed in 1979 because of the recession and the May, 1979, crash. On July 10, a United Boeing 747 was forced to make an emergency landing at Miami International Airport after the plane was damaged in heavy turbulence over the Florida-Georgia border. None of the airliner's 108 passengers were injured. The second-worst crash in U.S. history was an Aug. 16, 1987, crash that killed 156 people when a Northwest Airlines jet crashed on takeoff at Detroit Metropolitan Airport. One child on the plane survived. 