But Mr. Sununu's removal may not solve the president's immediate problems. Moreover, Mr. Sununu's ouster is unlikely to result in any major changes in Mr. Bush's economic policies, which have attracted much criticism recently. Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down. Moreover, top Republicans on Capitol Hill, as well as some administration officials, say Mr. Skinner has a penchant for abrasiveness, although he is hardly Mr. Sununu's equal on that score. Mr. Sununu will leave his current post Dec. The end of Mr. Sununu's reign at the White House came without the blustery self-confidence that was the mark of the governor's suzerainty. By the time he and the president agreed on his departure, Mr. Sununu, who made self-confidence a badge of honor, was despondent. It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen. But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls. Nevertheless, administration officials say it's unlikely Mr. Sununu's departure will mean major changes in economic strategy. Nor is it likely to please the White House's conservative critics, who frequently relied on Mr. Sununu to push their causes. But despite Mr. Sununu's ties to conservatives, he had in recent months abandoned their economic agenda. One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year; he argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat. Mr. Sununu, said the official, is really more of a pragmatist. Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues. Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues. Anti-abortion groups were among the first to express regret over Mr. Sununu's departure. According to several adminstration officials, Mr. Sununu also encouraged Mr. Bush to take a firm position on issues where Mr. Bush had no strong views, such as vetoing appropriations bills for the District of Columbia that allowed it to use its own, locally generated funds for abortions for poor women. As a result, Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of his party. Mr. Sununu began to face rough political waters a year ago when, as one of Mr. Bush's chief negotiators on the deficit reduction agreement, he bruised congressional egos from both political parties with heavy-handed lobbying and what many saw as disregard for their stature as elected representatives. The Sununu saga ended with a handwritten note to Mr. Bush on a trip that Mr. Sununu knew would seal his fate. The president had already been searching for a way to ease Mr. Sununu out of his post gracefully. At the same time, Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies. Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates. In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss. 