As they scanned the flow of passengers at Los Angeles International Airport, police detective Clayton Searle and his fellow narcotics officer searched for the likely companion of the suspected drug courier who stood handcuffed nearby. When Searle noticed a short, muscular black man walk toward them and then turn abruptly toward a bank of telephones, the plainclothes Los Angeles police detective moved in quickly to question him. Only later did Searle and his partner from the Drug Enforcement Administration realize that the suspected drug courier they had arrested on that March day in 1988 was Joe Morgan, the former Cincinnati Reds second baseman who was inducted Monday into Major League baseball's Hall of Fame. The 46-year-old Morgan, who is now an Oakland businessman and baseball broadcaster, is suing Searle and the city of Los Angeles in federal court, claiming that he was unfairly targeted because he is black and fit a certain profile that narcotics officers think a drug courier should look like. The Morgan case also reflects a growing criticism of police use of the drug courier profile to stem the flow of drugs through airports. Neither Booth nor Schults would comment on the Morgan lawsuit, which is scheduled to go to trial for a second time next month in Los Angeles. I wish that this hadn't happened, Searle said. Morgan could not be reached for comment. Morgan could not be reached for comment. Asked to identify himself, Morgan said he told the officer that his wallet was in an attache case about 40 feet away but that Searle refused to let him retrieve it. When a bystander -- who would later testify for Morgan -- recognized the former player and tried to intervene, both men claimed that Searle warned the man to stay away. Minutes later, Morgan said, Searle grabbed him by the neck and they fell to the floor. Morgan said the officer then put a knee in his back, wrenched his arms behind him and handcuffed him. Searle then offered to free him if he would forget the matter, according to Morgan's lawsuit. This happened to Joe Morgan, but it really is applicable to any black person who uses Los Angeles airport, said Oakland attorney Edwin Wilson Jr., who also is black. Honey A. Lewis, who represents the officer and the Police Department, said Searle had acted properly and was merely asking Morgan to identify himself when Morgan suddenly became belligerent, spewing profanities and slapping the officer. According to Searle's sworn court deposition, the incident began after he and Woessner, working together as members of an airport anti-drug task force, had arrested a passenger as a suspected drug courier. Although the officers found no drugs in his possession, Searle said they discovered that the passenger was holding a second plane ticket, and they began looking for his companion. When they spotted Morgan, Searle said, he tried to speak to him but Morgan started screaming profanities and making animal noises and hit him in the chest with a wild swing. 