Some 160km west of Tokyo in Japan's coastal Tokai region is what may be the world's most dense array of geophysical instruments. If the committee so advises, Japan's prime minister will issue an earthquake warning for the Tokai area. And then everyone will wait for an earthquake measuring eight on the Richter scale. Long after the rest of the world has abandoned hope of predicting earthquakes, Japan continues to spend Dollars 2.5m (Pounds 1.6m) a year monitoring the Tokai region and close to Dollars 100m more on general earthquake prediction research. For prediction believers, it is a small price to pay, as Japan is one of the world's most earthquake-prone countries. Despite the protests, however, Japan's earthquake prediction programme rolls along on inertia, insularity and unrealistic public expectations. Japan made earthquake prediction a national project in 1965 when scientists throughout the world were optimistic about prediction. In Japan, prediction took on urgency when seismologists concluded that the Tokai area was overdue for a significant quake. Friction between these plates causes the area's earthquakes. Since then, optimism about prediction has faded. Precursors are often only recognised as such after a large earthquake. Japan has had numerous killer quakes outside the Tokai monitoring network, including a 7.8 earthquake off the coast of Hokkaido last year that claimed more than 200 lives. Kiyoo Mogi, chairman of the six-member panel that will make the call on the Tokai earthquake and former head of the University of Tokyo's Earthquake Research Institute, says several factors make the Tokai region more suited than others for what he calls 'a national experiment'. The region's geology is straightforward, so they can narrow down the likely location of the anticipated earthquake. The evidence is that significant strain has accumulated along the fault since the region's last big earthquake. Japan's prediction research activities, primarily overseen by the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, are subject to no such review. The public, and even public officials, remain largely unaware that Japan's scientists are debating whether prediction is impossible or merely difficult. 