Carl Grindberg survived the drought with a $45,000 dose of federal aid. The 1988 drought relief program poured more than $400 million into North Dakota, the nation's most agriculturally dependent state. The money not only helped rescue thousands of farmers; many say it also kept the state afloat. "If it hadn't been for drought aid, the economic situation all through North Dakota would have been disastrous. "I don't think too many farmers took disaster aid and bought Cadillacs and went on vacation in my area," Grindberg added. A study of the $3.9 billion disaster relief program, conducted by The Associated Press over seven months, found that outside the Midwest drought area, lax rules and requirements led to thousands of farmers collecting millions of dollars for nothing more serious than the normal trials of nature. Almost all was for crop loss. The state, the No. But drought aid cut farmers' losses from $1.1 billion to $706 million, a North Dakota State University study found. Another university survey of 466 farmers said that without drought aid, the average farmer's net cash income would have been just $6,300. Drought payments added $15,000. Disaster aid and crop insurance also were critical to other drought-ravaged states, including Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Disaster aid and crop insurance pumped about $500 million into Iowa's economy, an Iowa State University study said. Good crops the next two years started to reverse the trend, but drought stalled the recovery. "It has a demoralizing effect when you have a disaster," said Dwight Aakre, a North Dakota State economist. "Financial aid helps to alleviate that. Despite relief and nearly $200 million in crop insurance, the state still needs "a good year to get back on our feet," Hauck said. About $19.8 million in 1988 aid was divvied up among 1,847 farms in Cass County, the state's leader in crop acres. For Larry Richard, a 36-year-old father of three who farms 1,000 acres near the town of Horace, $39,000 in aid, even coupled with $55,000 in crop insurance, amounted to "just enough to break even. Grindberg, who farms 900 acres of wheat, soybeans and barley, was in the red last year despite $70,000 in aid and insurance. "Disaster aid is political," he said. "Depending on when you have the disaster depends on whether they sweeten the pot or not. 