1985 March 16 _ Anderson abducted on Beirut street. May 16 _ First photo of Anderson in captivity released. Benjamin Weir, another Islamic Jihad captive, freed after 16 months in captivity. 8 _ In an open letter, Anderson and three other American captives held by Islamic Jihad call on Reagan to "have mercy" and negotiate with kidnappers. 31 _ Beirut TV stations broadcast videotape showing Anderson's 16-month-old daughter, whom he has never seen. 15 _ Islamic Jihad releases new picture of Anderson. 16 _ Islamic Jihad distributes another picture of Anderson. 2 _ Sixth photo of Anderson released by Islamic Jihad. 21 _ Islamic Jihad releases another photo of Anderson. 27 _ Anderson turns 40. 10 _ Anderson passes his 1,000th day as a hostage. 24 _ Islamic Jihad release a videotape of Anderson. 1988 March 16 _ Anderson begins his fourth year in captivity. April 10 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by a photo of Anderson, that it will kill its captives if any attempt is made to storm a Kuwaiti jetliner hijacked by Shiite extremists. May 4 _ Islamic Jihad freed three French hostages. May 9 _ Release French hostage Marcel Fontaine, also held by Islamic Jihad, says Anderson's greatest fear is that the Americans will launch a commando raid to free him, an action he believes would mean his certain death. 18 _ Islamic Jihad issues a photo of Anderson with a statement saying he and another U.S, hostage will not be freed soon, squelching speculation they would be released following the gulf war cease-fire. 21 _ Islamic Jihad threatens to "punish" its captives in retaliation for Israeli air raids in south Lebanon. A photo of Anderson accompanies the statement. 23 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by a photo of Anderson, that its American hostages will a price that "will reflect adversely" on them if the group's demands are not met. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S. hostage. 27 _ Anderson is 41, his fourth birthday in captivity. Islamic Jihad issues a photo of him to authenticate a statement again denying any connection with the women held in Milan. 31 _ Islamic Jihad issues a videotape of Anderson to mark his 41st birthday. 