NEGOTIATIONS FOR a new contract between Botswana, the world's most important diamond producer in value terms, and De Beers, the South African group which controls 80 per cent of the market for rough (uncut) diamonds, are taking much longer than expected. He said: 'Because the major (diamond) producers freely consent to sell exclusively through one channel, the CSO is able to preserve an orderly market by matching rough diamond sales closely to consumer demand.' 'Data accumulated independently of the CSO would put Botswana in a position to have more input into the arrangements for the sale of its diamonds,' IDC pointed out. If Botswana were to sell 10 per cent of its rough diamond production, worth about USDollars 100m, independently of the CSO - which sells about Dollars 4bn-worth a year from all over the world - it would represent no threat to market stability, IDC said. It claims analysts have estimated that 50 per cent of De Beers' diamond profits in 1989 came from Botswana. 'This profit is disproportionate to the sale of diamonds by Debswana (De Beers' subsidiary in Botswana) to the CSO as a percentage of the CSO's total sales profits,' IDC says. 'It is not unreasonable to reflect whether the fact that Botswana is the only major producer currently selling 100 per cent of its production to the CSO has any bearing on the substantial profits made by the CSO on the sale of its diamonds.' It already markets diamonds for producers in Guinea, Guyana, Brazil and the Central African Republic, and is offering to do some marketing for Botswana. However, in common with other producers selling diamonds to the CSO, Botswana has appointed independent valuers who continuously monitor diamond production and the prices paid. De Beers insists it remains on cordial terms with Botswana and says the country is still selling its diamonds through the CSO. The Botswana government recently set up a diamond cutting centre with De Beers' technical help, and this, too, should further the country's understanding of the market. There has been a special relationship between the CSO and Botswana since 1987 when the country sold its diamond stockpile to De Beers in exchange for an estimated USDollars 250m and a 5.27 per cent shareholding in the South African group. De Beers, which itself mines about 40 per cent of the world's annual rough diamond output, markets stones from Angola, Australia, Namibia, Tanzania, Zaire and the Soviet Union, as well as South Africa and Botswana. The CSO has also notched up some recent coups: bringing a big part of the Soviet Union's and Angola's rough diamond output back into the cartel - or what it calls its 'single channel marketing' - arrangements. 