To economists, term limits sound like minimum wages, rent controls and similar interferences with free markets. The real surprise is that some strong supporters of free markets, such as The Wall Street Journal, have been the biggest advocates of term limits. A problem with term limits is that it creates more lame ducks, who are less responsive to the desires of the electorate. (It is interesting to note, however, that Hamilton was not discussing term limits on the legislature, and was actually arguing against the term limits on the chief executive that are contained now in the 22nd Amendment.) The only respectable argument in favor of term limits that I know of refers to the legislature and involves the interaction with the seniority system. The voters would be better off if they could reach a binding agreement that precluded the re-election of incumbents, that is, if term limits were instituted. Yet the same voters likely would have approved a proposal that limited the terms of all Congressional representatives, not just those from Washington. Changes in the seniority system may therefore be a superior alternative to term limits. The various complexities about legislative term limits and their interaction with seniority do not arise for executive term limits. The only defense for executive term limits is that the electorate needs to be protected against itself, an argument which, if true, would mean that democracy was seriously flawed and would work much less well than it seems to. Of course, since the passage of the 22nd Amendment in 1951, there is a two-term limit on the presidency, and 29 of the 50 states have some kind of term limit on the governor. The origins of these limits may have more to do with competition between legislative and executive branches than with a desire to improve public policy. To some extent, the current pressures for legislative term limits reflect the reverse desire to shift power away from Congress. Perhaps the best test of executive term limits is to check whether the states with term limits on the governor have performed better or worse than those without such limits. The answer, if one holds constant geographical region and the level of per capita income in 1960, is that states with term limits experienced slightly below average growth of per-capita income over the last 30 years but were also a little below average in the fraction of state product that went to state and local government expenditures. Not surprisingly, the main message is that executive term limits are not an important determinant of economic growth or state spending. Executive term limits are therefore a bad idea, but one should not expect vastly better performance at the state or national level from the elimination of these restrictions. Legislative term limits are less clear-cut and it is possible to build a respectable case that favors such limits. 