Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen, says David Shulman, a Salomon Brothers economist who tracks real estate markets. The only reason Las Vegas has been booming is because it was on the periphery of Southern California. But the same can't be said in the housing industry, where out-of-state wealth has fueled growth over the past decade. As a city that thrived on the free-spending ways of others, Las Vegas was made for the 1980s. While gamblers spent money wildly, builders transformed the Las Vegas valley's dirt roads, rock and sand into a carpet of housing developments, man-made ponds and golf courses. But a lengthy downturn could undo some of the image-building that Las Vegas underwent in the 1980s. Keith Schwer, of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's Center for Business and Economic Research. The recession in the early '80s spurred city leaders to mount a campaign to help Las Vegas break out of its dependency on the casino industry. In 1983, the Nevada state Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to Las Vegas. By contrast, the city's huge new Mirage casino employs about 7,000. Still, Las Vegas isn't Phoenix, and there haven't been any billion-dollar thrift seizures or distressed land sales yet. Las Vegas does have excesses that are uniquely its own. Now Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. Other once-proud Las Vegas names have been tarnished by closings and bankruptcy filings. While the twin engines of Las Vegas's housing growth -- the casino industry and the spillover from the California market -- are beginning to sputter, housing starts continue to climb. Over the next year, builders have applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas. Economists cite another disturbing trend in Las Vegas's growth pattern: A full 8.1% of all payroll workers are in the construction sector, suggesting that there aren't enough indigenous industries to pick up the slack once things quiet down. He cashed in on the California real estate boom last year and moved to the serenity of the Nevada desert, where he lives in Del Webb Corp.'s Sun City, a planned community. With the California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't have made my deal today, he says. I was lucky things went so well in California when they did. But they used to say that when California got a cold, Las Vegas got pneumonia. 