The point at issue in Senate debate on a new immigration bill was whether illegal aliens should be counted in the process that will reallocate House seats among states after the 1990 census. There could be enough of them to shift seats away from at least five states to Sun Belt states with large numbers of illegal residents. Nobody is certain because counting illegal aliens is a hard thing to do, given the fact that they don't want to be spotted by the government. After the 1980 census, the government estimated that there were 2.57 million people in the United States illegally. The government made no attempt to count them out in the redistricting process; indeed, the two previous administrations decided that the Constitution required that the census cover illegal aliens along with citizens. The Senate has passed an immigration bill including an amendment that would cut illegal aliens from the redistricting numbers, but it is not likely to clear Congress before the next year's national head count. Richard Shelby, D-Ala., proposed, and won, the immigration bill amendment that is supposed to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process. It would give Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher the assignment of adjusting the census figures so that illegal aliens don't count for purposes of redistributing House seats. Shelby's amendment says only that the secretary is to "make such adjustments in total population figures as may be necessary, using such methods and procedures as the secretary determines feasible and appropriate" to keep illegal aliens from being counted in congressional reapportionment. That task would be perilous politically, since it would involve taking House seats away from some states and giving them to others, all on the basis of estimates. With 435 seats in the House, every representative gained by a state is a representative lost by another. That was amended after the Civil War to say that the apportionment of House seats will be based on "the whole number of persons in each state." Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo., said the people who wrote the documents had no concept of illegal aliens because there weren't any in their time. He said it is unfair to count illegal aliens in reapportionment. 