Even if he hadn't gone through the agony of the past two weeks, Judge Thomas would have been a crucial addition to the court, which is closely divided on such extraordinarily important issues as abortion, religious expression, and free speech. But Judge Thomas's friends and foes agree that his nationally televised trial by fire cannot fail to change him as a jurist. Clint Bolick, vice president of the Institute for Justice in Washington and a close friend of Judge Thomas, says that the weekend hearings will deepen his sympathy for victims and will reconfirm his very strong belief in individual rights. But those who had qualms about Judge Thomas before Anita Hill's accusations against him exploded in public worry that the hearings will push him in a different direction. As a result, she argues, Judge Thomas will be more likely to rule against the interests of civil rights organizations and women's groups that opposed him. Others are concerned that the Supreme Court as an institution will be diminished for having Judge Thomas on the bench, even though Prof. Hill's allegations of misconduct were not proven. His lingering anger toward women's groups could also affect his thoughts on abortion -- the most controversial issue before the court, and an issue on which Judge Thomas has said he has no current view. On the other hand, liberals hope that his experience at the hands of the Senate will have sensitized Judge Thomas to the rights of people charged with wrongdoing. Judge Thomas is by no means the first Supreme Court appointee to have weathered scandal. The Thomas case, however, is unique in some respects. The cloud over Judge Thomas isn't likely to dissipate quickly, especially because the Senate was ultimately unable to determine whether he or his accuser was telling the truth. As Judge Thomas helps decide controversial cases over the years, the specter of Anita Hill's lurid allegations will almost certainly be evident. Here's a look at issues on which legal experts think Judge Thomas's thinking may be affected: SEXUAL HARASSMENT. The bitter battle over Judge Thomas's treatment of Anita Hill has pushed a relatively obscure case called Franklin vs. Gwinnett County (Ga.) into the limelight because it involves sexual harassment. The slightest utterance from Judge Thomas during this argument is bound to be dissected and will be imbued with special meaning. But Ms. Campbell is hopeful that Judge Thomas will be sympathetic to victims of such discrimination, in part to rehabilitate his reputation. Judge Thomas may get a boost in this effort from the politically attuned Chief Justice William Rehnquist. During the hearing, Judge Thomas made plain his abhorrence of sexual harassment. The issue that dominated the first round of Judge Thomas's hearings last month, was abortion-the most contentious issue before the court. Democrats questioned Judge Thomas's credibility when he insisted not only that he didn't have an opinion on Roe vs. Wade, the abortion-rights landmark Supreme Court decision, but also that he had never discussed the 1973 case. Women's rights organizations fear that Judge Thomas's animosity toward liberal interest groups will influence his decisions on reproductive rights. Claudia Withers of the Women's Legal Defense Fund says that such expressions of hostility by Judge Thomas give us the concern that he wouldn't look favorably on claims by interest groups that advocate abortion rights before the Supreme Court and that also opposed his nomination. Judge Thomas wouldn't be able to vote on the case unless the Supreme Court asks the parties to reargue it once he is on the bench. In the intervening months, abortion-rights advocates worry that Judge Thomas's bitterness toward them will harden and push him into an anti-Roe majority on the court. Judge Thomas has for a number of years allied himself with conservative legal thinkers, led by Justice Scalia, who trace many of the government's ills to congressional overreaching. There are no cases involving press freedoms on the court's docket and Judge Thomas has had very limited First Amendment experience, a gap that gave the American Bar Association reservations about the nominee. And, in all probability, reporters will continue their digging into Judge Thomas's past in an effort to get to the bottom of Anita Hill's charges. Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, a member of the ethically tarnished Keating Five, commiserated with Judge Thomas about being pilloried. Judge Thomas gave earlier hints that on protection of criminals' rights he might surprise his conservative backers. Judge Thomas will have an opportunity to apply his criminal-law views in the case of Jacobson vs. U.S., which is scheduled to be argued next month. In the end, some critics of Judge Thomas worry that his recent experiences will send him onto the court as an embittered man bent on revenge against his perceived tormentors. But John Danforth, Judge Thomas's most passionate defender in the Senate, says going through the agonies of hell has made Clarence Thomas more sensitive to civil rights, to the necessity of legal protection of the people of this country, than most people who could conceivably be nominated for the Supreme Court. 