The fire was so intense that a gray shadow on the forest floor is all that remains of a fallen log. As Yellowstone National Park's research biologist, he has already begun to monitor the forest's rebirth from the worst fire on record. The tiny seeds are slowly released from rock-hard pine cones only after the cones have been seared by the passing flames; indeed, they require a fire to propagate themselves. Only about 500 mature trees were on an acre of hillside here before the fire. The profusion of pine seeds is just one of the rejuvenating forces at work in Yellowstone even as the fires, largely quenched this week by rain and snow, still smolder. Grasses and several types of wildflowers, ranging from fireweed to wild geraniums, are already sprouting less than seven weeks after fire roared past Grant Village near Yellowstone Lake. Next year, the ground cover replacing the park's burnt stands of aging lodgepole pines should provide a 30-fold increase in plant species. The National Park Service has already been at the center of a much-publicized political firestorm over its 16-year-old natural burn policy, which allows lightning-caused fires to burn themselves out, except where they threaten towns or park buildings. In an average year, 2.5 million tourists visit the huge park, and a drop-off because of the fire damage could severely hurt business. In August, with fires out of control, the tourist trade was off 30% here. Mr. Despain has set up or is planning several long-term research projects to study the effects of this year's fires. Fire licked at its corners even as he was mapping the trees within.) After the fire is out, he surveys damage to a plot. Television pictures of the Yellowstone's fires at their height made things look worse than they are. True, fire boundaries within the park cover about half the park's acreage. In fact, nearly half the area within the fire zones remains untouched by fire. The burnt snags, as charred tree trunks are called, creak in the wind above Mr. Despain and are all that remain of a forest section that sprouted after a fire swept through here about the time of the Civil War. Mr. Despain says it is no coincidence that most burnt trees here were senior citizens, relatively speaking, and highly susceptible to fire. The last fire to rival this year's in intensity roared across much of Yellowstone in the early 1700s. Fires have been an integral force in the Yellowstone ecosystem for the past 10,000 years since the glaciers left, Mr. Varley says. Seeds that have been dormant for decades beneath the soil appear to be triggered by the passing fire, he says, and will germinate next spring. For the first five years after a fire, while surrounding vegetation is still relatively low, there will be a proliferation of wildflowers in the park, she says. Aspen trees, whose paper-white bark and yellow leaves punctuate the evergreen forests this time of year, also thrive after a fire. Yellowstone's meadows rebound the fastest after a fire. Forests visited only by ground fires will rebound almost as quickly. Shrubs and grasses cover what is left of the burnt undergrowth, although fire scars will be visible on some trees for years. The completely burned forests will remain a mixture of meadow and snags for several years. But many snags, weathering to fence-post gray, will remain as monuments to the fire of 1988 for years to come. Hundreds of plant species proliferate after a fire until canopy closure is achieved in about 40 years. Then the forest thins as it ages, trees fall, underbrush grows, and the forest is primed for a fire to start its life cycle over again. Memories of Bambi and Smokey the Bear notwithstanding, Yellowstone's large animals don't appear to have suffered from the fire. Yellowstone's elk and bison herds, as well as moose, should benefit from the additional forage in the park next year. It's too early to tell whether the fires, which burned some lower pastures, affected the herds' ability to weather Yellowstone's long winter. Ecologically, there's no down side to the fire, he adds, conceding that similar statements by park officials may have sounded cavalier when the fires were raging. Wyoming's U.S. senators, Republicans Malcolm Wallop and Alan K. Simpson, are mindful of the damage the fires caused the state's tourist industry this year, as well as the threat to gateway towns near the park. A panel of academics and scientists is being assembled to study this year's fires and make recommendations on what changes might be in order. These and the rest of the park's thermal features remain unscathed by the fires. Tourists will be back next year for this... and perhaps to see how nature is restoring the forest. 