(AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> Aly El-Shiekh envisions astronauts on a three-year trip to Mars "knitting" themselves a space station using ceramic fibers that can be braided into panels, beams, boxes and practically any other shape. "We believe if they can take the ceramic fibers they need and the machinery we're developing they would be able to literally make the space stations they will need as they go," said El-Shiekh, a mechanical engineer at working in North Carolina State University's textiles school. El-Shiekh and his students are developing machinery to braid long strands of ceramic fibers. While much of his work relates to the Mars Mission Research Center here, El-Shiekh sees a big future for composite materials like ceramic fibers. The fibers, including Kevlar now used to make bulletproof vests, also could be used to make some body parts, and El-Shiekh is working with Duke University researchers on ceramic "stents," collapsible braces for arteries. "The big problem is cost and that's why we're working on this automated machinery." </TEXT> <HEAD>ERs Now Seeing Effects Of Changing Type Of Coke Addiction</HEAD> <DATELINE>BOSTON (AP) </DATELINE> <TEXT> It's 8 p.m. and a dozen people wait in the lobby of Boston City Hospital's emergency room. "Have you taken any drugs?" doctors ask. It's a question that has become more and more commonplace in emergency rooms already burdened by increased patient loads. "There is an emergency in the emergency room right now in not only New York and Boston but around the country and for a variety of reasons," said Ken Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. Drugs, and their side effects of AIDS, violence and psychiatric disorders, play a role in the problems plaguing big-city emergency rooms, Raske said. From 1986 to 1987, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, cocaine-related cases in emergency rooms increased 122 percent in the District of Columbia; 86 percent in both Boston and Atlanta; 80 percent in Detroit; 73 percent in Chicago; 53 percent in Minneapolis; 50 percent in Texas, and 39 percent in New York City. Efforts to stem the rising tide of drug abuse comes at a time when emergency rooms already face increased patient loads, partly because of the reduced role of the traditional family doctor and partly because there are more people who can't afford a private doctor. 