What he had stumbled upon was village banking, a system of investment using small revolving loans to poor women to finance their private enterprise, allowing them to create savings while paying interest and qualifying for bigger loans. What Hatch envisioned on that plane five years ago has translated into 400 village banks in nine countries with more than 35,000 members. "We teach severely poor mothers how to create their own self-managed bank, which provides them with self-employment loans, provides them with savings incentives and provides them with a support group of mothers like themselves, so that they are all attacking change at the same time." Catholic Relief Services entered a five-year, $1 million joint venture a year ago with the U.S. Agency for International Development and the foundation to create 40 village banks in Thailand. They targeted microenterprise development through small entrepreneurs, vendors, village market women, who in some developing countries comprise up to 50 percent of the employment. Capitalization for one bank typically will cost a sponsoring agency $5,000. Their vehicle for improvement is the village bank, each comprised of 30 to 50 women who, through loans starting at $50, can earn enough to provide savings and create capital. "We want to know who the most powerful woman is in that village." Each woman signs her name or provides a thumbprint as collateral, agreeing to repay one-sixteenth of the loan weekly, plus interest of 1 percent to 3 percent, in line with local banks. Women who join the bank screen members and elect their leaders from first-meeting attendees. But at the same time, each woman has been depositing weekly savings of at least 20 percent of the original loan. The savings serve as incentive for subsequent loans by increasing the credit line each time, Hatch said. Interest in village banking is mounting. The United Nations has provided a $50,000 grant to research the effects of women's empowerment through village banking on maternal and child health practices. Rotary Club 100, a Phoenix organization, and a Rotary Club of Mexico City are in a joint venture, having funded five village banks in Guaymas, Mexico, with another four to be launched in the slums of Mexico City. Hatch says he believes village banking has a role to play in reducing poverty along the Mexican border and in slowing down migration to this country. 