The plot revolves around a family of brain diseases, probably variations of a single disorder, called spongiform encephalopathy. Victims then die quickly, usually within a year. Now, after decades of detective work, medical sleuths appear to be closing in on the molecular culprits behind the disease. 1 -- the disease is rare -- but it may pay off in a big way because the findings could shed light on more common killers, including Alzheimer's disease. Recently the fascination has taken on a more anxious cast as the disease has struck humans and animals with suspicious regularity in several places, underscoring a longstanding question: Do people get the disease from animals? The question has burned with special intensity since scrapie, the form of the disease in sheep, jumped to British cattle a few years ago after they were fed ground-up parts of infected sheep. About 20,000 British cattle have been destroyed since 1986 in hopes of eradicating the spongiform mad cow disease, which makes the animals jittery before they keel over. A few weeks ago, the first confirmed case of mad cow disease outside Britain turned up in Switzerland. Scientists agree, however, that the disease in animals probably poses little danger to people. Yet sheep have never been strongly implicated in cases of the human form of the disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, or CJD. Now villagers there call CJD our sheep disease. Indeed, CJD is a nefarious trickster; the first reported case of the disease, which entered medical texts in the 1920s, really wasn't CJD after all, scientists now believe. And it usually strikes so rarely and randomly -- killing about one in a million people world-wide each year -- that scientists didn't even begin to suspect it was infectious until 1957. That year, the NIH's Dr. Gajdusek, then a young scientist casting about for big questions, planned a trip to Papua New Guinea to visit a friend. En route, he heard that a primitive New Guinea tribe, the Fore, were dying in droves from an unknown brain disorder they called kuru, the shivering disease, because it started with tremors. Soon kuru victims' brains started issuing from the heart of darkness to distant medical centers, compliments of Dr. Gajdusek. Two years later, William Hadlow, a U.S. veterinarian, saw a picture of one of the kuru brains in a medical journal and was struck by its spongy appearance. He had seen that look before in scrapie, the sheep disease, and put in a call to the NIH. Another link fell into place when Igor Klatzo, an NIH scientist, noticed kuru brains resembled ones from CJD victims. Based on the clues, Dr. Gajdusek, back at NIH, led studies in the 1960s showing kuru, CJD and scrapie to be essentially the same infectious disease, studies that won the 1976 Nobel Prize for medicine. But the infectious agent continued to baffle scientists. Brain tissue of infected animals could transmit the disease when injected into different animals' brains, yet microscopes revealed no signs of infectious microbes. In the early 1980s, scientists discovered that CJD, like Alzheimer's disease, often gums up the brain with a kind of junk, or amyloid, protein. Further studies showed the junk mainly contains a botched form of a naturally occurring brain protein, sometimes called a prion. A hot question: Does the amyloid in Alzheimer's disease form similarly? All this, however, doesn't explain what happened after Dr. Brown baked isolates of the disease agent for an hour at 680 degrees Fahrenheit, a temperature that melts proteins. He injected the ashy residue into animals' brains, expecting nothing to happen. But a few of them got spongiform disease. Still, Dr. Brown and other scientists aren't much worried about mad cows because their animal studies show spongiform disease is very hard to transmit orally. Examining his brain, a veterinarian found a telltale sponginess, sparking another round of panic in the U.K. about spongiform disease. Now more than 10 British cats have died of it, suggesting brains from infected sheep or cows got into cat food. Brown and Gajdusek knew just where to look for such people. 