Currently on the Federal Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C., Judge Bork is recognized as perhaps this country's most distinguished judicial scholar. Commenting on Judge Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court, Geoffrey Stone, dean of the University of Chicago Law School, called it a four-star appointment and commented that it was rare to get anyone with anywhere near his credentials. Indeed, when Judge Bork was nominated for the appeals court post in 1981, the Senate unanimously approved. The answer is that Judge Bork is a neutral-principled judge -- a judge who makes decisions based on established legal principles irrespective of the bottom line of who may win and who may lose. Judge Bork's elevation to the Supreme Court may very well tip the balance toward this neutrality of interpretation, and there are those who fear that the court -- no longer able to do what the individual justices may think is good or moral or right -- will reject activist social, economic and criminal-justice agendas. The Constitution, however, commands a neutral-principled approach to judicial decision making, and a Bork confirmation would help restore the balance among the three branches of government the framers so carefully crafted. More than 150 years earlier, Francis Bacon had warned judges to remember that their office is jus dicere, and not jus dare; to interpret law, and not to make law, or give law. Law making -- policy making -- by judges has become so pervasive that, of late, many see it as the judicial function against which potential judges must be measured. This bottom-line mentality is why Judge Bork's nomination is at risk even though Judge Bork recognizes that constitutional interpretation must be sufficiently flexible to accommodate changing times. Far from being ideologically partisan, as some have charged, Judge Bork holds fast to a neutral-principled approach irrespective of whose ox is being gored: The sin of wanting judges to do good things simply because the electorate won't do them, he explained in the same interview, is not confined to liberalism. Judge Bork's elevation to the Supreme Court would help restore a proper constitutional balance. 