Thomas was to begin his testifying later in the afternoon.; Even before Biden rapped the opening gavel, Thomas' nomination triggered a confirmation battle more akin to a political campaign -- television commercials, endorsements by dozens of groups for and against, and a daily drumbeat of support from President Bush.; Abortion aside, Thomas also is expected to be questioned about his views on civil rights -- especially affirmative action -- and the right of privacy.; Thomas smiled broadly as he shook hands with Biden and other members of the committee in advance of the opening gavel.; Moment of humor; For the most part, he sat quietly at the witness table while members of the committee outlined their views on his nomination.; There was a moment of humor when Biden asked Thomas how old he was. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, a strong Thomas supporter, said Thomas should not be forced to spell out his views on abortion because Justice David H. Souter, who won Senate confirmation last year, was not required to do so.; Questioned on 'natural law'; Biden said Thomas would be asked about his belief in natural law. Some critics contend Thomas holds natural-law views that could lead to the conclusion that fetuses have a right to life requiring states to outlaw all abortions.; Biden himself is an advocate of natural law in some form, but he said Thomas apparently holds a vision of natural law that we have moved beyond. ; Biden said he would be looking closely to see whether Thomas' philosophy would lead to imposition of a moral code on the Constitution and radical change in legal opinion.; Thurmond, of South Carolina, said Thomas has all it takes to become an outstanding member of the Supreme Court. ; It is not appropriate that philosophy alone should bar a nominee from the Supreme Court unless that nominee holds a belief that is contrary to the fundamental, longstanding principles of our nation, Thurmond said in prepared comments.; In prepared opening remarks that reflected Democrats' ambiguity about Thomas, Sen. Let them make this determination, Bush said.; 'Independence of the court'; Making a fresh appeal for Thomas on the eve of today's opening hearing, Bush exhorted lawmakers Monday to preserve the independence of the court by avoiding asking the nominee how he would vote.; But one member of the committee, Sen. And I think to do less than that would be irresponsible on our part. ; White House spokesman Judy Smith said today that, although the White House would not divulge numbers in an informal head count, We're confident Judge Thomas will be confirmed. ; If confirmed, Thomas would be the 106th Supreme Court justice but only the second black.; The committee is expected to closely examine Thomas' record as chairman of the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and as head of the Education Department's civil rights office. Liberals contend he pursued policies that slowed, or even blocked, increased opportunities for minorities and women.; Feminist groups have been in the forefront of the liberal coalition opposing Thomas, warning that his vote added to an already conservative Supreme Court could overturn federal protection for abortion rights and send the issue back to state legislatures. 