     King, who never enjoyed sitting at home, now leads a sedentary, largely
secluded life, venturing out with a wheelchair and cane mainly for medical
treatment. Never much of a bookworm, the 25-year-old laborer and high school
dropout does not even enjoy television these days because "every time he turns
on the TV, he sees something on it" about the beating, ex-wife Dennetta King
said.;    "He's depressed, he's scared," she said, adding that she speaks with
King about twice a week, mainly about their daughters. "That's about all he
talks about.";    "He's depressed because they beat him like that and he feels
that his manhood has been taken, and he's scared because he doesn't know if
they're going to try to beat him up again or kill him or what," she said.;   
Dennetta King said her ex-husband has been staying at a series of undisclosed,
private homes with family members because of threats.;    King's attorney,
Steven Lerman of Beverly Hills, said he has hired security guards to "watch
(out) for him.";    Lerman has filed an $83 million claim against the city on
King's behalf. Three Los Angeles police officers and a sergeant have been
indicted on charges of excessive force in the case, while investigations
continue into the culpability of 17 other officers present.;    Although the
March 3 videotaped beating has been replayed across the country and overseas,
igniting an unprecedented political war within city government and a series of
investigations, King himself has avoided publicity.;    Lerman said he has
declined all requests for interviews with King from reporters because "I don't
feel he's in any kind of shape to be seen.";    King's neat, blue home in
Altadena has the curtains drawn, its phone number and those of other family
members long changed. Neighbors say they do not hear from King directly, and
only occasionally catch word that "he's doing OK" or "getting by.";    King
suffers from painful headaches, and numbness on the right side of his face
where the bones of his cheek and eye were fractured "like an eggshell," said
his plastic surgeon, Dr. Alvin Reiter.;    King's bones appear to be healing
well after five hours of reconstructive surgery March 14, Reiter said. The
natural tightening of the skin during the healing process has created
"significant bumps and depressions" on King's face that probably will require
more surgery.;    "He's very concerned about what he's going to look like,"
Reiter said.;    Dennetta King said Rodney was always proud of his good looks
and used to take longer than her to wash and dress. "He loves his teeth and
face," she said. "He brushed quite a bit, and used to get on the girls all the
time about brushing their teeth. He believed in pretty teeth.";    King
remains under investigation in the Feb. 21 armed robbery of a Los Angeles
video store. Los Angeles police have acknowledged he became a suspect in the
case, in which a store clerk was shot in the shoulder, only after the March 3
beating when his photograph was widely broadcast on television. He is on
parole for a 1989 robbery of a Monterey Park grocer.  
