     The homemade videotape, shot early Sunday morning in the Los Angeles
community of Lake View Terrace, appears to depict at least a dozen police
officers surrounding a man after he left his car, kicking him and inflicting
more than 30 blows with nightsticks as he lay on the pavement. The tape, shot
from a nearby balcony, recorded no sound.;    It was first shown Monday night
by a Los Angeles television station and broadcast throughout the day Tuesday
by Cable News Network. The violent images produced an immediate public
outcry.;    At a Los Angeles Police Commission meeting Tuesday afternoon,
Chief Daryl Gates called the tape shocking but said he would withhold judgment
until the incident had been investigated.;    Bradley was unequivocal in his
response: "This is something we cannot and will not tolerate," the Los Angeles
mayor said. "It's now a matter of our identifying and finding witnesses. . . .
I assure you that, once that's done, appropriate action will be taken by the
department and the police commission.";    Police officials identified the man
as Rodney Glenn King, an ex-convict who lives in Altadena.;    California
Highway Patrol officials said King's 1988 white Hyundai was clocked on the
freeway at up to 115 mph early Sunday morning. Los Angeles police officers
joined the pursuit when King exited to surface streets, running several red
lights, a Highway Patrol spokesman, Sgt. Mike Brey, said.;    Los Angeles
Traffic Detective Richard Talkington told the Los Angeles Times that written
police reports from officers involved said King ignored several requests to
leave the car after he was stopped.;    King finally lay down on the ground,
prone, at the officers' orders, he said. One officer approached King to
handcuff him, and when King attempted to stand up, Officer Laurence Powell put
his knee on his back to keep him down, Talkington said.;    Talkington said
King continued to rise, causing Powell to fall, "and that's when the fight
started." But the videotape contains no indication that King attempted to hit
the officers.;    Three witnesses who live near the site of the incident said
Tuesday that King did not fight officers.  
