     Near the end of his prepared statement, the district attorney said that
"while many of the bystander officers were deeply disturbed by what occurred,
. . . to this day, some of the officers present do not acknowledge that the
incident should have been handled any differently than it was.";    Because
the beating still is under investigation, he declined to elaborate or answer
reporters' questions. But he said he would forward the "disturbing interviews"
to the local independent commission investigating the police department. The
commission has no disciplinary power.;    "I couldn't be more disappointed,"
said Mark Ridley-Thomas, a city council candidate and executive director of
this area's chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. "We had
expectations that these lawbreakers -- and passive though they may have been,
they were lawbreakers -- would be dealt with accordingly. . . . We have not
given up on this.";    The American Civil Liberties Union plans to see whether
it can take any legal action on the grand jury's decision.;    "Some of these
officers have strongly defended the activities surrounding Rodney King . . .
which is an incredible thing to say under investigation," ACLU spokesman Joe
Hicks said. "We do not have a lot of confidence in the justice department and
(its) past record of investigation and prosecution of police abuse around the
country.";    The Los Angeles Times reported that the grand jury heard from
seven officers, including five rookies who witnessed King's arrest. The
rookies said the scene that night was chaotic and noisy, that King appeared
dangerous and possibly high on PCP, and that the sergeant there seemed to be
in charge. Officers reportedly weren't asked why they did not try to stop the
beating.;    In his statement, Reiner said that "however morally wrong their
failure to intercede, in California law, there is no criminal statute under
which these officers can be indicted. . . . Because the behavior of the
bystander officers was both irresponsible and offensive, and in light of the
unprecedented public furor over this case, the grand jury is to be commended
for remaining true to their duty.";    King's March 3 beating, captured on
videotape, spawned outrage throughout the world and led to criminal charges by
the grand jury against four Los Angeles Police Department officers.;    Police
Chief Daryl Gates earlier this week fired one of the officers, a rookie still
on probation, and suspended the other three without pay pending hearings that
could lead to their dismissal.;    Besides those four, at least 17 other LAPD
officers were present at the scene of the beating. There also were two from
the California Highway Patrol and two from the Los Angeles Unified School
District.;    The police department's internal investigation of its bystanders
is continuing, Cmdr. Rick Dinse said. While he would not discuss the
investigation or its results, Dinse said that behavior "doesn't have to be
criminal for us to take action.";    Only the police chief has the power,
after extensive review, to discipline officers. Whether Chief Gates will be
the one to rule on these officers remains a question. A Superior Court judge
is reviewing whether the city's police commission had the right to put Gates
on leave last month, and whether the city council has the right to reinstate
him.  
