Outside Gandhi's house in New Delhi on Tuesday night, hundreds of angry Congress Party workers chanted slogans against the CIA, accusing the U.S. intelligence agency of engineering the assassination. Some shocked Indian political leaders told reporters they feared Rajiv Gandhi's assassination augured the death of India's four-decades-old democracy. President Corazon Aquino deplored the latest killing but said public officials must learn to live with the threat of assassination. But on Thursday, within hours of Pizarro's assassination, a man had called the national radio network station Caracol and related in detail how the cartel had allegedly ordered the former guerrilla's killing. Hundreds of leftist guerrillas belonging to the M-19 rebel group laid down their arms last month and formed a political party with Pizarro as its presidential candidate. But the Medellin cartel denied involvement, and no government official has yet said who was responsible for Pizarro's assassination. Former president Alfonso Lopez said the assassinations of three candidates indicated that Colombia's armed forces must be reorganized. (Havana PRENSA LATINA 1813 GMT 24 Mar 94) The Nationalist Republican Alliance, Arena, the ruling party in El Salvador, today released a communique condemning Colosio's assassination and expressing solidarity with Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. A few days ago, Palestinian Ahmad Mahmud 'Abd-al-Karim, a prominent FRC official, arrived in Lebanon from Finland on the special mission of following up the investigations the Lebanese authorities are conducting with the Palestinians from the Abu-Nidal group who are accused of the assassination of Jordanian First Secretary Na'ib al-Ma'ayitah in Beirut on 29 January. Detailing this cooperation that lead to al-Ma'ayitah's assassination, the security sources note that the al-Ramlah al- Bayda' area in Beirut contained a secret headquarters for Walid Khalid, the FRC official spokesman who was assassinated in the Lebanese capital on 30 July 1992. Since Mr Ruiz Massieu's assassination, there has been renewed speculation that political reactionaries and drug traffickers may have had a hand in the killing six months ago of Mr Luis Donaldo Colosio, the ruling party's reform-minded presidential candidate, even though no evidence has emerged to indicate this is the case. Government officials have suggested the Gulf drug cartel may have deliberately involved Mr Munoz Rocha in the assassination to maximise the political impact of the crime. 