The parties could be helped by this . . . people would have to become more dependent on the party for funding and for guidance, and less dependent on the special interests.There is some merit to term limits, but they have to be done in a way that doesn't unduly strengthen the bureaucracy and others who are not elected.If there are constant changes, the impact of term limits would be to empower the bureaucracy -- the people who are not elected -- and (they) would definitely empower the special interests who have the finances and the ability to assist the bureaucrats.As to what are the implications of term limitations in the state of California, a lot of people think that this is a partisan issue.Term limits would give the people of California more control over the Legislature, and the Legislature would be less prone to special interests, because legislators would know they are going to be there for six years and they're out.Since states do have the power to amend the Constitution on their own, although it is much harder to do it that way, it could very well be that the groundswell of support for (this) movement in some key industrial states would lead to, not only initiatives in those states to restrict their own state legislative terms, but also . . . a demand for a constitutional amendment to do the same.The Legislature, right now, is controlled by those people who have a vested interest in legislation.Instead of worrying about what their constituents think, as it gets toward the end of their term, legislators are going to be worried about what their next employer thinks, possibly in the private sector, or in their next constituency, which will not necessarily share the same interests as the one that elected them.My guess is that in about 20 years, there would be another initiative to change (term limits) because we will have found that (they) didn't work.But legislatures also need strong committee chairmen, and term limits mean that relatively inexperienced people are going to be in leadership and that they are -- by definition -- lame ducks from the very beginning.There has been a national movement that started in California, 25 years ago, to really strengthen the role of legislatures and to make them co-equal branches of government; things like term limitations, which would restrict the power and authority of legislatures, are a step backward in that movement.It is the ethnic mix, the cultural diversity -- all of those things have to be cranked in.The national effect would be very impressive because, unlike Oklahoma (where voters recently approved a 12-year-limit on legislators), which does not have a reputation for being in the vanguard of political change in America, California does.It would become clear rather quickly that you have a bunch of elected amateurs trying to run a very complex, complicated system of state government.I have tried to make the argument that it is not really partisan at all.For minorities who do not have a financial base, it is usually extremely hard to raise the money . . . well-financed, well-organized candidates who are supported by other communities will have a much better chance.So, governing the state of California . . . is not as easy and simple as a lot of people would think.And the other thing a lot of people seem to think is that you the governor -- or you the legislator -- can get up there and solve these problems tomorrow.Proposition 131 would limit statewide elected officials to two consecutive four-year terms, state legislators to 12 consecutive years in office; Proposition 140 would hold Assembly members to six years in office, state senators and statewide elected officials to eight.We are growing at the rate of three-quarters of a million people a year, and that, alone, is hard for people to comprehend.Because it is the largest political state in the country, a success for either proposition here is likely to have spinoff moves around the country. . . .