But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls.Moreover, while Mr. Bush is under attack for lack of attention to domestic policy, Mr. Skinner can claim credit for shepherding major highway and mass transit legislation through Congress.Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues.Mr. Sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington.Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates.Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down.By the time he and the president agreed on his departure, Mr. Sununu, who made self-confidence a badge of honor, was despondent.According to several adminstration officials, Mr. Sununu also encouraged Mr. Bush to take a firm position on issues where Mr. Bush had no strong views, such as vetoing appropriations bills for the District of Columbia that allowed it to use its own, locally generated funds for abortions for poor women.One high-ranking official said Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner is almost certain to get one of those two jobs -- probably the chief of staff position.Moreover, Mr. Sununu's ouster is unlikely to result in any major changes in Mr. Bush's economic policies, which have attracted much criticism recently.In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the "chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence" he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office.One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year; he argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat.In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation "with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss."As a result, Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of his party.Mr. Sununu, said the official, "is really more of a pragmatist."