Since 1971, Mr. Browning says, he has picked the correct dates of four large earthquakes, two volcanoes -- and one day with both a volcano and an earthquake."He has a methodology that can determine, plus or minus a window of a day or two, an enhanced probability of a volcano or an earthquake in certain latitudes," says Mr. Stewart."No responsible scientist can predict an exact day for an earthquake," says Brian Mitchell, a quake expert at St. Louis University, echoing the majority opinion.Shaken, thousands of people are crowding into earthquake survival classes.The New Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid) fault still has 150 small, mostly unfelt, earthquakes a year.Iben Browning, a 72-year-old scientist, predicted October's Bay Area quake a week before it happened, say people who heard him speak to the Equipment Manufacturers Institute."We're overdue for one in the 6s and low 7s," says David Stewart, an earthquake expert at Southeast Missouri State University.But Mr. Browning shouldn't be written off so quickly, says Southeast Missouri State's Mr. Stewart, who recently spent four days with Mr. Browning.Robert Edwards, a Blytheville fireman who teaches seminars in earthquake survival, has become a hot property.Says Jimmy Connell, plant superintendent, "It's going to be a ghost town around here."At that time, a similar quake has a lesser chance of occurring on California's San Andreas or Hayward faults, according to Mr. Browning, and an 8.2 quake in Tokyo has a greater chance.Mr. Browning says it's not easy being on record with predictions that few other scientists will support."But this one," says Randall Updike, the executive secretary, "has created such chaos in the mid-continent region that we felt we had to give our advice."The New Madrid area has a 50-50 chance of producing at least a 7 quake on Dec.Mr. Browning says he is tentatively booked to give a talk in Minneapolis on Dec.In Missouri and Arkansas, some schools and businesses have announced plans to close in early December.