Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), who last month opposed the congressional resolution authorizing war, said, "I think that the president would make a terrible mistake if he allowed Saddam Hussein to be in the position where he could declare to his own people some sort of victory, and there is no sign President Bush intends to do that."Overall, Pentagon officials described Iraqi forces as confused, leaderless and battle-weary, adding that the few Guard units that have engaged in tank duels so far haven't been "any tougher" to defeat than the rest of Saddam Hussein's army.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime.Pentagon officials said that early reports from the field indicated that U.S. forces captured or neutralized a Republican Guard mechanized division -- that is, one with mainly artillery and light armored vehicles.Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending them back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime.Saddam Hussein apparently was hoping to stop this devastation yesterday with a radio address to his troops and nation in which he said that Iraqi troops are withdrawing from Kuwait but that Iraqis should be proud to have stood up to a 30-nation coalition.Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that he acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq.The more immediate problem for U.S. officials, though, is the final confrontation with Saddam Hussein's 90,000-man-strong Republican Guard.By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering him out of Kuwait, Saddam is "giving us every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power," said one Bush administration official.That is precisely what he attempted to do in a radio address yesterday in which he congratulated his soldiers for standing up to a 30-nation coalition assembled by the U.S. Mr. Bush now has plenty of cheerleaders urging him on in the humiliation of Saddam Hussein, even among those who doubted the wisdom of the war in the first place.The huge allied armored corps north and west of the Guard is the biggest combat tank force assembled since World War II, with more than 1,300 heavy tanks and about 100,000 U.S. and British soldiers, supported by hundreds of Apache helicopters and A-10 jets.Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt.After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said.Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly.Early indications were that the Republican Guard is fighting back, even though it has been bombed for weeks, has had its communication lines disrupted, and now faces an allied strike force of more than 100,000 soldiers bearing down from the west and the north.Secondly, the U.S. is calculating that Saddam Hussein will remain a sympathetic figure to those who revere him no matter how the U.S. treats him -- and that those who are skeptical about him will become more so.