And although the White House chief of staff has toned down since that early encounter, in a recent meeting with GOP House members, Mr. Sununu suggested that Republicans attack a crime package proposed by Democratic Sen.Mr. Sununu, President Bush's chief of staff, is a combative, conservative Republican with a history of ambushing liberal Democrats like Sen.His boss, President Bush, is enjoying high public approval, important legislation is moving ahead and Mr. Sununu's relationship with the president is strong.Biden does say that when Mr. Sununu has "substantive differences" with someone, "the inclination is to respond with personal attacks -- which is bush league, no pun intended.In the last stages of preparing Mr. Bush's mammoth Clean Air Act proposals, for instance, Mr. Sununu called together Environmental Protection Agency chief William Reilly and White House staffers for a marathon meeting to craft a compromise settling a dispute over regulations to cut auto emissions.This was particularly evident during the Tower debacle, when Mr. Sununu privately lashed out at Sam Nunn, the powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee who led the fight against Sen.And whatever his relations with others, Mr. Sununu's most important relationship -- the one with President Bush -- appears sturdy.And Mr. Sununu is comfortable enough with Mr. Bush to pull an occasional practical joke.The other day, Mr. Sununu and two other advisers were sitting in front of Mr. Bush's desk waiting for the president."I think this administration takes pains to work hard to make sure the whole is built up of a lot of pieces done in exactly the right way," Mr. Sununu says.It occurred to Mr. Sununu that the sight of three aides staring at an empty presidential chair was reminiscent of the Doonesbury cartoon strip that lampoons Mr. Bush by portraying him as a transparent wisp of air.And a group of conservative supporters was stunned at another meeting when one conservative began raising a concern about personnel issues, only to be cut short by Mr. Sununu, who snapped: "Get your facts straight."Inside the administration, aides say Mr. Sununu has grown more relaxed, more willing to delegate responsibility and surprisingly content to play the role of a detached broker in policy debates.One group Mr. Sununu has generally succeeded in pleasing is conservatives, who view him as their champion in a generally moderate White House.Mr. Sununu also rankled some Republican congressional leaders by dressing them down at a recent White House meeting for failing to properly support Mr. Bush's programs.