President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment?Presidential advisers are counseling Mr. Bush to stay away from the dispute over whether Judge Thomas is guilty of the charges of sexual harassment.And Ms. Hill will also be asked why she didn't broach her sexual-harassment charges in confirmation hearings for earlier posts that Judge Thomas won.In an episode of high drama, Judge Clarence Thomas, who was only hours away from winning a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, and Anita Hill, who says he made her a victim of sexual harassment, begin to tell their versions of the story this morning before the Senate Judiciary Committee and an audience of millions. </LP> <TEXT> The proceedings will be carried live on ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, public television and cable outlets.The Thomas handlers Although the White House is arguing that Judge Thomas is preparing his defense himself, the team that prepped the nominee for his hearings is under enormous pressure to redeem itself and salvage the situation.Moreover, the group's strategy of having Judge Thomas be as general and evasive as possible during the hearings -- insisting at one point that he had no opinion on the Supreme Court's landmark abortion ruling -- created a credibility problem that has haunted the nomination.The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination.And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, he can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas.Howell Heflin, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, is a conservative Democrat who waffled on the Thomas nomination and then opposed it, criticizing the nominee's evasiveness and suggesting he might be a right-wing ideologue.Civil-rights groups that have opposed Judge Thomas are in an especially awkward position.In the narrowest sense, Judge Thomas and Ms. Hill are staking their own reputations, personal credibility and careers on this session.She has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired.He is already on record as criticizing the nominee for fleeing from his record, arguing that Judge Thomas "jettisoned one public statement after another like a captain trying to keep his ship afloat."Specter will want to be sure that Judge Thomas didn't lie to him.On the one hand, says Ronald Walters, chairman of the political science department at Howard University, their objectives "are going to be served by this hearing because regardless of the outcome it's going to damage the credibility of the nominee."The Republican questioners They want to support Judge Thomas without appearing to be winking at sexual harassment.Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas has to answer whether he dated, or tried to date, Ms. Hill.On the other hand -- as the chairman of a committee that began the downfall of Reagan Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork -- he must be tough enough on Ms. Hill to show that he's being fair to the nominee.Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, like Mr. Leahy a former prosecutor, has already spoken to Judge Thomas about Ms. Hill's charges.Ms. Hill will need to convincingly explain or refute those messages, as well as reports that have Judge Thomas, for example, helping her land a job on the law faculty at Oral Roberts University.