this time, however, the outcry -- including the videotapes of police in action -- comes from anti-abortion protesters with operation rescue, whose members tend to see themselves as law-and-order conservatives. meanwhile, police officers, many of whom are sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause, claim that religious zeal -- and perhaps the use of muscle relaxants -- has given operation rescue anti-abortion protesters an unusually high tolerance to pain -- or even a martyr's appetite for it. as operation rescue built momentum, engaging in civil disobedience at clinics around the country, the allegations of police brutality increased: * in san diego, an officer reportedly moved through the demonstrators singing: don't try to understand 'em, just round 'em up and brand 'em. * in pittsburgh, women claimed they were sexually molested by officers. * in west hartford, conn., officers removed their badges and name tags -- purportedly to avoid cutting demonstrators -- and then allegedly hauled protesters away with come-along holds, by lifting them with sharp-edged plastic handcuffs, or with crotch carries in which a night stick is stuck between the protester's legs. in demonstrations in those cities and others, including boston, atlanta and denver, protesters alleged that officers continued to apply come-along holds after demonstrators had complied with their commands, administering pain as a form of curbside justice. village voice columnist nat hentoff has skewered liberal civil libertarians for letting their ideology stop them from supporting anti-abortion protesters' fight to restrain what he calls the torture police. robert dornan (r-garden grove) read into the congressional record a column by william f. buckley jr. comparing the west hartford demonstrations to civil rights demonstrations in alabama three decades ago: it is hard to believe that bull connor, directing white redneck policemen, caused more brutality in the treatment of blacks than was caused by the police of west hartford in their treatment of members of operation rescue. sobel was amused at how quickly lawmakers addressed complaints of police brutality that, she said, have been raised for years by protesters against u.s. policy in el salvador by members of the revolutionary communist party and other groups generally viewed less sympathetically by conservatives. 