although the establishment of communications between ljubljana and belgrade would be very important for the situation in the former yugoslavia in general, the chances that this could happen soon are minimal. this information has not been denied and, apart from that, it is the logical conclusion to a series of statements issued by slovene politicians, which pointed to a change in relations toward belgrade. it is assumed in the federal ministry of foreign affairs that slovene businessmen might even be checking the atmosphere for possible political contacts, but there have been no official statements about it. <h5> commercial contacts </h5> the signals from the slovene side are being received in yugoslavia with reservations. yugoslav sources claim that slovenia is becoming increasingly isolated because of its extreme policy toward yugoslavia, so that this might be one of the reasons why it has decided to soften its attitudes toward yugoslavia. the first signs of a change in the slovene attitude toward yugoslavia were noticed during the visit of karolos papoulias, the greek foreign minister, and vaclav havel, the czech president, to slovenia, in november 1993. <h5> diplomatic pirouettes </h5> at that time the press carried statements made by milan kucan and lojze peterle that unquestionably represented a shift in policy toward belgrade. at the beginning of december 1993, mr. peterle, the slovene minister of foreign affairs, made that attitude concrete in a letter to warren christopher, the u.s. secretary of state, in which he wrote: a possible removal of the sanctions against yugoslavia is being fully considered since the aims for which they were introduced have not been achieved.... single statements and diplomatic pirouettes are not enough to overcome the present differences, including the slovene attitude toward kosovo, the interruption of economic relations, the way slovene independence was achieved by force, and diplomatic duels on the international scene. <h5> [box, p 7] </h5> <h5> jovanovic: slovenia must excuse itself </h5> in order to enter the process of normalization of relations with slovenia, certain conditions must be fulfilled first, vladislav jovanovic, fry minister of foreign affairs, said in a statement for politika, and added: first it is necessary for slovenia to excuse itself for the rude and impertinent move it made a year ago in refusing the yugoslav offer of recognizing slovenia. 