     Roads nearby were clogged with cars, jeeps and buses as thousands of
terrified residents fled. Church bells pealed in the city of Angeles, adjacent
to the air base, warning the more than 300,000 residents to seek shelter.;   
Reporters at the scene said the blast created a greenish-gray mushroom cloud
"like an atomic bomb." They said they heard three blasts, and then a huge
gray-greenish cloud burst from the crater, blocking out the sun.;    There
were no immediate reports of injuries. Philippine officials had evacuated
about 19,000 villagers in recent days, but others stayed in scattered hamlets
to tend to their animals and farms.;    All telephone lines to Clark were
down, and Armed Forces Television was unable to broadcast after at least three
eruptions began at 8:51 a.m. (5:51 p.m. PDT), following two smaller emissions
before dawn. Another eruption occured shortly before noon.;    Scientists said
the volcano had plenty of built-up magma and even more severe eruptions could
come later.;    "Most probably there will be more eruptions," said
seismologist Julio Sabit.;    Raymundo Punongbayan, director of the Philippine
Institute of Vulcanology and Seismology, said everyone within a 12-mile radius
should evacuate, or even within 18 miles, "to be safe.";    'Dark mushroom'; 
"The smoke is very thick, like a dark mushroom in the sky," Gus Abelgas, a
reporter for ABS-CBN television, said in a broadcast from Botolan, near the
volcano's western slopes. "It's just like what we saw in Hiroshima.";    Other
reporters described panic as people scampered for safety with their belongings
and livestock.;    Most of the Americans stationed at Clark were transferred
to the Subic Bay Naval Base and were expected to remain there until the danger
from the volcano was past.;    In volcano's path;    Punongbayan said the site
where Clark is located was in the path of the volcanic flow from Mount
Pinatubo during its last major eruption, in the 14th century.;    Rollie
Rimando, another volcanologist, said a major eruption could hurl debris and
poisonous gases in a 12-mile radius, affecting both the base and parts of
Angeles.;    On Tuesday, a cloud of ash-laden steam rose up to 11,500 feet
above the volcano but suddenly dissipated in the afternoon, only to revive
again 20 minutes later. The area on the western slope of the mountain was
covered in a thin layer of ash.;    Ash began falling Monday on villages west
of Angeles near the slopes of Mount Pinatubo, prompting authorities to close
roads there. But Angeles police said Tuesday that no one was evacuating the
area.;    Some refused to go;    A Philippine police major identified only as
Major Reyes said he visited a remote settlement near the volcano after the
blast and tried to talk a handful of residents into leaving. But they refused
to abandon their livestock and water buffaloes, known as carabaos.;    "If our
carabaos die, we'll die with them," the officer quoted them as saying.;   
Col. Jose Balajadia, chief of the Philippine military's Clark Air Base
Command, said Tuesday that troops remaining at the base had been issued gas
masks in case ash falls over the installation.;    At the Subic station,
newcomers from Clark tried to sort out their finances, adjust to cramped
living and otherwise cope with dislocation. Finance officers issued partial
pay to personnel who had to leave before having a chance to go to the bank.;  
 Smaller than anticipated;  The eruption appeared to be smaller than that
anticipated by Peter Lipman, a U.S. Geological Survey scientist in Menlo Park,
who on Monday had said an eruption as massive as that of Mount St. Helens
could occur any day.;    After the eruption, Lipman tried unsuccessfully to
telephone five USGS researchers monitoring the volcano from Clark Air Base.;  
 In a conversation with Lipman half an hour before the eruption, the
researchers said the volcano had had small eruptions earlier in the day. At
the time of the phone call, they were planning a helicopter ride above the
volcano to survey the size of the lava dome inside its crater.;    There are
about 21 active and 200 dormant volcanoes in the Philippines. The last major
eruption was the Taal volcano, about 50 miles south of Manila, in 1965. That
explosion killed about 200 people.; IFYOU'RE INTERESTED; The Filipino American
Chamber of Commerce of Santa Clara County is raising funds for evacuating
residents who live near the erupting volcano. Donations of any kind may be
sent to the Filipino American Chamber of Commerce, Santa Clara County, 72 N.
Fifth St., Suite 12, San Jose, Calif. 95112. Phone: 283-0833.  
