     Rand said that Americans who live on or near the base would drive or be
bused to the U.S-operated Subic Bay Naval Base, about an hour's drive to the
southwest. The evacuation was to take four hours, he said.;    There was no
indication how long the Americans would stay, but they were ordered to take
along important papers and three days worth of food, water and clothing.;   
Philippines officials earlier had ordered the evacuation of more than 11,000
people from about 20 villages near the volcano, about 60 miles northwest of
Manila, after a series of small eruptions began Friday. No injuries were
reported over the weekend.;    Raymundo Punongbayan, director of the
Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology, said, however, that two
moderate eruptions shortly before 3 p.m. Sunday appeared to signal a larger
explosion.;    "We're expecting a major eruption," he said in a telephone
interview early today. "We're just at the beginning stage of eruptions. We're
expecting many, many more.";    Punongbayan said that the 4,795-foot-high
volcano was spewing gases up to 1,800 degrees, thick black ash, boulders and
rock fragments in two fast-moving streams from two vents on the western side
of the lower summit.;    "It's very dangerous," he said. "Anything along its
path will be destroyed.";    Clouds and ashes;  Sunday's eruptions sent a
dense cloud of steam and ash billowing thousands of feet above rice paddies
that are lush green from an impending harvest. Heavy black clouds shrouded the
mountain, and a blanket of gray ash covered nearby fields. Debris reportedly
was sprayed as far as the South China Sea, 20 miles to the west.;    Villagers
from a 12-mile radius of the mountain fled the area on foot and water buffalo,
and aboard crowded trucks and jitneys. The Philippines Red Cross said 11,024
people, including local Aeta aborigines, were evacuated to 18 disaster relief
centers set up at area schools, but officials said that many villagers stayed
behind to protect their animals and farms from looters.;    Rand said the
evacuation of Clark was ordered "due to a slight increase of volcanic
activity" overnight. All U.S. Air Force planes had moved from the base to Cubi
Point Naval Air Station near Subic on Sunday, and infants in the base's
neo-natal hospital and other patients had been flown out.;    Evacuation
rehearsal;  All military personnel at Clark, home of the 13th Air Force, were
recalled to the base Sunday afternoon, and U.S. officials ordered local
Americans to pack bags and rehearse evacuation procedures.;    "People are
pretty calm," said one American woman who lives on the base. "People are
prepared.";    Rand said that a minimal number of troops would remain at Clark
to guard the facility and maintain essential services. Marines from Subic as
well as Philippines and U.S. military police were deployed along the road to
provide security.;    The volcano began showing signs of activity in April for
the first time in 600 years, and last week it began belching small amounts of
steam and smoke. Seismologists reported a marked increase in volcanic tremors
last week, with intense seismic quakes on the mountain Friday.;     Last
eruption;  Mount Pinatubo last erupted in 1380, 141 years before Ferdinand
Magellan, a Portuguese explorer flying the flag of Spain, first reached the
islands in search of spices.;    There are about 21 active and 200 dormant
volcanoes in the Philippines, which sits on the "Ring of Fire" that circles
the Pacific Ocean. Scientists said there was no connection, however, to the
eruption last Monday of Japan's Mount Unzen, which killed at least 37 people
on Kyushu Island. A fresh flow of lava, gas and debris erupted there Saturday,
setting 73 homes on fire.;    Nearly 10,000 people have left their homes at
the foot of Mount Unzen, and two naval ships stood by to take residents
farther away in case a new eruption sent lava, hot rocks and ash over a yet
wider area.  
