1. Gray, who has used wind and air pressure patterns to make annual hurricane forecasts each year since 1984, will issue his first formal 1988 forecast in late May. 5 hurricanes have struck the United States with full force, the 1935 Labor Day storm that ravaged the Florida Keys and 1969's Camille, which slammed ashore at Mississippi and Louisiana. About 20 of them intensify into stronger disturbances, ranging from tropical depressions, with wind speeds to 38 mph to tropical storms, with winds from 39 to 73 mph to hurricanes, with winds exceeding 74 mph. That storm was almost exactly the strength of Hurricane Hugo, which hit in South Carolina with 135 mph winds in September 1989. Atlantic hurricanes form from especially strong tropical storms that are triggered by winds and other air disturbances that sweep across Africa. 30, has 10 named tropical storms with rain and maximum sustained wind exceeding 39 mph, six of which become hurricanes with drenching rain and wind over 74 mph, Case said. Dealing with a major hurricane isn't much different from dealing with smaller ones or tropical storms, Sheets said, adding that Gilbert has been particularly well-behaved. As Hurricane Gilbert's record-breaking fury sends Caribbean islanders scrambling for cover, National Hurricane Center Director Bob Sheets remained calm at his helm. Dealing with a major hurricane isn't much different from dealing with smaller ones or tropical storms, Sheets said, adding that Gilbert has been particularly well-behaved. During the average Atlantic hurricane season, which stretches from June through the end of November, six tropical storms will grow into hurricanes, with heavy rains and winds of 74 mph. Officials warned residents of the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and nearby islands to bolt down everything loose and stock up on food and water Wednesday as Hurricane Dean rumbled through the eastern Caribbean. Hurricane warnings were posted for the Leeward Islands from Antigua to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, said forecasters at the National Hurricane Center near Miami. Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast. To determine the track of the storm, the forecasters analyze supercomputer predictions, satellite data, the history of similar storms and the current path of the hurricane. 