the german ferrari driver struggled to finish fifth behind the victorious jacques villeneuve in the brazilian grand_prix , second race of the year. schumacher had hoped to lead his italian team on a championship challenge this year and he made it clear he felt his bid had been undermined by his car's goodyear tyres , while rivals like frenchman olivier panis and reigning champion damon hill were making the most of the new bridgestone rubber. but just as i expected , our tyres did not maintain their performance level over the whole race. _ i had a job getting past hill as his tyres were still in top condition and this lost me a_lot_of time and probably cost me at_least one or two places. _ even before the season began , schumacher was warning former monopoly suppliers goodyear that they needed to improve the tyres they supplied to the top teams if they were to resist the challenge from the newly-entered japanese company bridgestone. although villeneuve dominated the twice-started race in his goodyear-shod williams , it was the performances of panis , in a bridgestone-tyred prost , and hill , in his much improved arrows using bridgestone rubber , which were most notable. panis , fifth in the first race of the season in australia , finished third to score the prost team and bridgestone's first podium finish , while hill , after running as high as fourth in a car which was abysmal in melbourne , eventually retired with a blown yamaha engine. _ the tyres were fantastic , _ panis said. _ it will not be long_before we can win a race with them. _ hill's team also praised the bridgestone tyres. team manager john walton said : _ i think we could have gone the distance with these tyres and scored a good finish if it had not been for other problems. _ villeneuve's victory , however , proved that the canadian had the ability to produce strong racing even when things were tough and he was not running on the best tyres. but it was a bad day for his new team mate , german heinz-harald frentzen , who finished ninth. _ he had a_lot_of problems this weekend and we need to sit down and sort them out , _ williams team technical director patrick head said. _ there is some talking to be done. _ given hill's strong showing , the williams team may be wondering if they made the right decision in dropping the world champion last year and bringing in the relatively inexperienced frentzen to replace him. 