tatiana vacova bratislava 1996-08-20 measures by the national bank of slovakia to ease the country's money supply may not be working , as a mounting liquidity surplus continues to drive prices down on the money market , analysts said on tuesday. they said the market's burgeoning liquidity , which is seen driving rates down by some two percentage points to about 10 percent on all maturities , points to the ineffectiveness of the nbs's recent moves to take money out_of circulation. _ the central bank will have to take other measures to stem the money supply , as the effect of the tool it chose to do so is partly eliminated by short-term foreign capital inflows , _ jozef bozek of tatra banka told reuters. last month , the nbs drove interbank interest rates to over 14 percent when , in a move to curtail banks' short-term lending , hiked minimum reserves significantly as_of august 1. while some dealers said that as long as the rates hang above 10 percent foreign speculators will remain interested in the crown , though robert hakszer of slovenska sporitelna noted : _ in the longer-term , rates could slowly ease to 10-12 percent , spoiling some of the crown's attraction. _ _ it would be enough to bring rates to below the czech republic's level to cut down a_bit on crown speculation , _ he added. the nbs also recently moved to strengthen the crown within the plus or minus five percent band of a dollar/mark basket midpoint it uses to fix the currency daily , further attracting foreign capital. _ the revalued crown boosted the central bank foreign exchange reserves , and eventually the market liquidity , _ said dalibor cernicka , a dealer with istrobanka. _ even if foreign investors pull out , their package is not so significant to have any major impact on the country , though it could temporarily toss the crown exchange rate , _ bozek said. the nbs hard currency reserves rose to $3.71 billion as_of august 14 , from $3.43 billion on july 24 , pouring out onto the money market and catching analysts who were expecting a puacity of funds off guard. nbs officials were not available for comment , but the central bank has said it is still _ early _ to analyse the effect of the measures , and warned it could even resort to imposing credit limits on banks if its money supply measures would not work. 