chris stetkiewicz new york 1996-08-20 the federal reserve's federal open market committee left interest rates unchanged at its meeting tuesday , leaving economists and analysts pondering what the central bank might do next. some analysts said that while fed policy-makers resisted pressures this summer to raise short-term rates , economic data over the coming weeks may force them to raise rates later this year. however , recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in august , although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals. _ before the fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year , they better have a solid economic justification for doing that , _ said sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. _ without the justifications , they would rather wait. _ some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook , meaning the fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears. _ i think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going , _ said lyle gramley , a former fed governor and currently an economist at the mortgage bankers association of america. gramley believes the u.s. economy is fundamentally strong but said _ some tightening will be necessary down the road. _ martin agreed that the fed is likely to remain on hold , _ not just because_of the election , but because this ( current economic scene ) is a central banker nirvana. _ martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the fed on hold over the next few months. 24 fomc meeting. _ despite signs of strong economic growth , inflation remains quite low historically , and fed leaders have refrained from raising rates in the absence of more troubling data. persistent job growth threatens to shatter the economy's recent low-inflation trend and the fed will not stand idly and watch that happen , they said. _ the job market is still quite firm. the absence of faster inflation amid such robust job creation has many analysts scratching their heads and wondering how long the fed will hold monetary policy steady. _ strong job growth has persisted long enough that the fed will certainly have to stand up and take notice , _ said gary schlossberg , senior economist at wells fargo bank. 