thalia griffiths sofia 1997-03-31 bulgaria's industry ministry , facing a mammoth task in restructuring 1,150 state firms , hopes to float some companies on a revived stock exchange to make privatisation more transparent and attract foreign investors. link: [comments: s1 provides the referent for he.] _ domestic buyers in the market are not that many and our hope was that if we float say 10 to 20 percent of a certain number of big state companies on the stock exchange we will find institutional investors from the west , _ marinov said. he told reuters in an interview the cash generated by such investment would go back into the companies instead_of into the state budget as with direct privatisations. _ at the moment bulgaria is ideal for foreign investors in some ways because here you can buy low and sell high because_of the general depression we are in at the moment , _ marinov said. he put their combined pre-tax profit at 90.64 billion levs under the bulgarian accounting system which takes no account of inflation , while the loss-makers made a 59.737 billion loss. _ if we did_ n't have the loss-makers , the state companies as a whole would be making something like half a billion dollars profit $... this would be a significant boost to the economy , though if those companies were private they would make three or four times more profit , _ he said. marinov said floating the companies would make the privatisation process more transparent as potential investors would have open access to financial data. _ it_ 's a half-way house to attracting foreign investment but also it_ 's an end in itself to create a stock-owner society. _ bulgaria's mass privatisation programme has issued eight billion levs of stock but at present there is no clear procedure for trading it. privatisation is a key part of bulgaria's commitments to the imf and world bank , and will generate foreign currency badly needed to support a fixed exchange rate system due_to be introduced in june. the former socialist government officially abolished direct subsidies to loss-makers but tried to keep the firms going through payouts from state-owned commercial banks , several of which are now in the middle of bankruptcy proceedings. _ this was a very complicated scheme of subsidising the loss-making enterprises , which did no good to the economy as a whole and to the enterprises as well , _ marinov said. 