ritsuko shimizu tokyo 1997-03-31 japan announced a range of measures on monday to try to jump start its long-stalled real estate market , a move analysts called a good first step but hardly the final answer to the problem. huge , unrealised losses in real estate are seen by many analysts as being at the core of japan's financial traumas. other measures include the use of public money to buy up land for public development projects , such as old-age homes , day-care centres and parks , as_well_as the easing of zoning and other regulations to promote such projects. _ even if they only achieve 60 percent , it_ 's still pretty significant , _ said darrel whitten , a strategist at lehman brothers japan. _ it_ 's not an end-all solution but it_ 's a step in the right direction , _ he said. many of the bad loans were made in the 1980s _ bubble era _ of sky-high stock and land prices to the real estate sector , with property used as collateral. analysts and banking sources said that some areas of the scheme , such as tax reform , needed to be sorted out to attract investors to real estate-backed securities. _ there are key areas which are still sketchy , they have only said that taxes on real-estate trust certificates and special purpose companies are under review , _ said an official at a leading trust bank. the ministry of finance said bodies such as the housing loan administration corp , which administers the debts of failed _ jusen _ housing loan companies , would present a list of around 380 billion yen ( $3.06 billion ) worth of property to the government to be considered for public development. _ the situation is already an inferno but the government has only got to the stage of ordering a fire engine , _ said an analyst at a real estate research institute. but even richard li , whose hong kong's pacific century group bought a tract of prime tokyo land for double its forecast price , says while generally bullish on japan's land market , he does not think prices have hit bottom. _ i think it has not hit the rock bottom , we are in the last 10 percent $... at the most , in my view the last 15 percent , _ he told reuters financial television in an interview last week. 