The statement by Slovenia's Information Ministry followed reports published by the Slovenian youth magazine Mladina that there had been plans for a military takeover of the republic. Joze Mencinger, an economist and former finance minister of Slovenia, illustrates the republic's economic resilience by noting that while Yugoslavia's industrial output fell 18% so far this year, Slovenia's declined only 10%. Aleksandar Prlja, Serbia's secretary for foreign affairs, told The Associated Press that Slovenia's banning of the peaceful rally was deeply humiliating for the Serbian people. Slovenia, whose 2 million inhabitants account for a fraction of Yugoslavia's total population of 23 million, is the most politically liberal and prosperous of the country's six member republics. Premier Lojze Peterle and other Slovenian leaders also say Slovenia should take urgent steps to join the European Community, no matter what Yugoslavia's Communist-ruled southern states say. After reporters remarked that this relatively negative attitude might negate the unofficial signal from Ljubljana, a Yugoslav diplomat said: We do not think that there is only one opinion in Slovenia about Yugoslavia. Since Slovenia's declaration of independence in June 1991, the gap between the peaceful, ethnically homogeneous new republic of 2m people and the war-impoverished rest of former Yugoslavia has widened inexorably. 'We have been very lucky,' says President Milan Kucan, the wily former communist who led Slovenia's drive for independence from the Serb- dominated federation. Independence has, above all, brought peace to Slovenia and left it free to implement the kind of rational market reforms and privatisation policies which remain blocked in the republics absorbed and impoverished by war further south. The Tanjug news agency reported that 200,000 Serbs were expected to join a territorial militia in Serbia, the biggest Yugoslav republic, which opposes independence for Slovenia and Croatia, and Negovanovic said Croatia had ordered a mobilization of its police reserves. Casualties mount At least 40 people were killed in the first two days of fighting in Slovenia, including 20 federal army soldiers, four Slovenian fighters and 12 civilians, said Janez Jansa, the Slovenian defense minister. 