Leaders of the United States probably withheld their breath Monday evening while watching on television what Russian President Vladimir Putin was about to say to his people. Putin has exceeded the positive neutrality policy his country (the Soviet Union at the time) has pursued during the Gulf War, and whose continued validity the military leaders also regarded as desirable. The situation in which Putin has agreed to open former Soviet military airfields to American armed forces in three (former Soviet) Central Asian countries could be regarded as dramatic. Although these are sovereign states, and the final decision would have been in their hands, people familiar with the actual balance of power indicate that these states would have done nothing, had Moscow wanted a different thing to happen. True, Putin only permitted (Americans) to deliver via Russian airspace aid to the theater of the anti-terrorism military operations, (i.e. not soldiers and weapons). Putin has written the name of Moscow on the registration page of the American side. But main stream Russian military policy has been to keep a distance from America, the country that has been historically responsible for educating the Taliban that had caused the demise of Soviet occupation forces in Afghanistan. Putin has no greater desire than to present to the West the Chechen independence movement as a chapter of international terror. In reality, Putin asked for a free hand regarding Chechnia, some understanding, or even that the Americans look the other way. Putin did not receive what he sought in a quick response from Washington, namely, that the State Department would continue to encourage political dialogue between Moscow and the Chechen insurgents. Nevertheless, one could not fail taking note of the fact that in the same response the United States called upon the Chechens to unconditionally and without delay to terminate every contact with international terrorist groups, and that they accept Putin's offer to make peace. If we view this warning against the background that Putin's government has always seen Usama Bin Ladin's hands behind Chechen terrorism, we were witnessing a late recognition of Moscow's views. 