In praise of those 'damn Yankees' Author: David Warren WASHINGTON - On the face of things, it is hard to see how any reasonable person could object to the war the United States is now waging against international terrorism and terrorist regimes. The targets in this conflict are the common enemy of all civilized men and women, regardless of race, colour or creed; and the magnitude of the threat they pose was revealed to the world on the morning of Sept. To be fair, so far as truth can be discerned from polls, the free Western world is indeed grateful, and on balance quite supportive of the cause the Americans are leading. Potential terrorists may well be concealed among them, but for the great majority, it is common knowledge that the United States is a land of freedom and opportunity -- the preferred destination of the world's emigrants for the better part of the past two centuries. The world's most prominent self-styled Palestinian refugee, Edward Said, is the perfect example of this: a man who would be nothing without the chic and prestige conferred by elite U.S. universities and the publishing institutions of New York, N.Y. And while the conventional and verbal anti-Americanism is in a different league from the terrorist strikes -- closer to hypocrisy than to murderous hatred -- I think the two are animated by a common cause: a cause to be sought in the murk of the individual human soul, not in the externals of political argument. I come to this view after three decades of adult life, having encountered and often tried to resist anti-Americanism in several countries. Again and again, I have discovered it is a simple prejudice, rather than a product of comprehensive reasoning: for the charges brought against those damn Yankees shift loosely between the U.S. polity and people, and are no sooner effectively rebutted than more charges come forward in their place. In the column I wrote on the very day of the September catastrophe, I touched upon the envy of America, which I believed to be its root cause. In the words of one, I can't believe anyone would sacrifice themselves and many others over something as petty as envy. Voices stilled by horror in the wake of the terror attacks on America, resumed their anti-American tirade when the United States took action in Afghanistan, and recently raised the pitch over the prisoners issue at Guantanamo Bay. For while the left has compounded anti-Americanism into dogma, the right in Canada, Europe and beyond, participates in the envy of U.S. success. Let me pause only briefly to allow that America is imperfect, like all earthly things; that its governments and people have committed many sins; that might does not make right; that power and wealth are not good in themselves; that goodness, truth and beauty may be found in every country and town. 