A couple of weeks ago, the federal government distributed a colourful announcement in newspapers across the land proclaiming that the Earth is getting warmer and that implementing the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, on the targeted reduction of so-called greenhouse gases, would fix things. Herb Dhaliwal, the federal Energy Minister, weighed in with even more qualifications: Some important details have to be worked out before Canada ratifies the Kyoto Protocol, he said. Lorne Taylor, the Alberta Environment Minister, estimated the costs of Kyoto to the Canadian economy to be somewhere between $25-billion and $40-billion a year. He was alluding to the great money laundering operation whereby the federal government transfers cash from productive provinces such as Alberta and dispenses it in places such as Quebec. At the same conference, Taylor's federal counterpart, David Anderson, announced that the Alberta numbers were absurd. Implementing Kyoto would cost a paltry $500-million, he said, and added more ominously that the issue, technically, is that international relations fall within the purview of the federal government. Taylor may have offered a more prudent guess, but the fact is, accurate estimates of the costs of policies designed to reduce selected gas emissions are impossible. No one can estimate the costs or benefits of developing novel energy sources because, if new knowledge could be known in advance, it wouldn't be new. Historically, nearly all temperature data have been collected from urban heat islands and, as New Zealand climatologist Vincent Gray observed, all measurements of global temperature that are made far from human habitation show no sign of any warming. Last spring the American National Academy of Science warned that because there is considerable uncertainty in current understanding of how the climate system varies naturally, any estimates of either the magnitude or the direction of future warming must be highly tentative. Finally, vast uncertainty is built into computer models of climate change. In short, because the estimates of the scale and timing of atmospheric warming are so uncertain, it is just not possible to assess the costs and benefits. The fact is, Kyoto is without principles and no one has a clue what it means. 