Midweek: Wheel turns with a vengeance for the Taliban AS Camp X-ray in Cuba's Guantanamo Bay continues to fill with Muslim militants who had sworn to die rather than be captured, even the little we see of their situation makes it clear they're in hell. The United States dismisses such concerns: it's a prison, after all; remember the Black Hole of Mazar-iSharif. It's been almost a year since the Taliban blew up those monumental 1,500-year-old sandstone statues in northcentral Afghanistan, at which time the only way for the rest of us to handle the insult to human sensibilities was to emulate the Gautama Buddha himself, and profess relief. Those statues probably hadn't been a good likeness of him, anyway. His clothes probably never looked quite like that - the statues' fashion sense had been clearly influenced by the Greeks, what with Alexander the Great having passed through on his way to giving up with India. Which, one supposes, was indeed the motivation of those who blew away those statues to leave two giant holes in the Afghan landscape, in the process paying unthinking tribute to some of the Buddha's subtlest and most profound teachings on the nature of impermanence and the perils of delusion. So those poor bullet-scarred statues made everyone look sad and foolish, and their final immolation a year ago put them out of their misery, so to speak. The veil of compassion was hardly elastic enough to pull over those two great big holes in the earth. Of all the unconscionable things the Taliban did to Afghan society in the six years of their reign, their demolition of the Buddhas of Bamiyan last March cleaved the rift between civilisations that was rammed wide open by hijacked aircraft over America just six months later, and which the US has since cauterised with the molten metal of its military might. And so it has come ironically to pass that, one year on, a new Afghan order is dreaming of rebuilding those statues, while what's left of the Taliban now sits in cells a world away, beardless, bald and clad in saffron. 