Canada to hand any war captives to U.S. SubHead: Backbenchers protest: Eggleton tells MPs to remember the real issue: Sept. 11 Author: Sheldon Alberts OTTAWA - Canadian troops will hand over any enemy fighters they capture to the Americans, Art Eggleton said yesterday, dismissing concerns from Liberal backbenchers about the treatment of Taliban and al-Qaeda prisoners by the U.S. military. At a joint meeting of the foreign affairs and defence committees, Liberals Marlene Jennings and John Godfrey challenged Canada's policy after Mr. Eggleton, the Minister of National Defence, said he is satisfied the United States is treating prisoners humanely and in accordance with international law. Mr. Godfrey, a Toronto MP, accused the Americans of violating international law by blindfolding and shackling prisoners who were transferred this week from a detention centre in Kandahar to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Mr. Godfrey said, When I see those hooded prisoners being put on planes to Cuba, I say to myself, 'Would we allow that, if Canadian troops were taken?' The lack of respect for the human person, I can't believe that, under any convention, that the Americans haven't already violated international law by treating people this way, Mr. Godfrey told Mr. Eggleton. Ms. Jennings, a Montreal MP, demanded assurances that Canadian soldiers will not turn over any prisoners unless the U.S. guarantees they will not face the death penalty. Human rights groups have criticized the U.S. military's treatment of prisoners captured during its current cleanup operation in southern Afghanistan. Mr. Eggleton said there is no evidence U.S. authorities have failed to provide humane care, and he said U.S. commanders have assured Canada they will follow international law. Canadian officials met with the Red Cross inspectors this week in Ottawa. JTF-2 members have not yet taken any prisoners in Afghanistan but they have been on missions in which prisoners were taken, Mr. Eggleton said. Still, Mr. Eggleton said Canada wants further clarification on how the tribunals that judge the prisoners will comply with international law. Mr. Godfrey said it is unacceptable for Canada to allow any ambiguity in policy toward the U.S. treatment of prisoners. 