First, his foreign trade minister, Annemie Neyts, has to create the right climate. Today, she will read a declaration on globalization in the European Parliament; later this week she will preside the informal meeting of EU foreign trade ministers in Bruges. During this meeting, she has scheduled a meeting with peaceful antiglobalists, but there is little I can do, she said in an interview. This is no blind violence but rather targeted violence, Annemie Neyts said referring to the antiglobalist movement that set Gothenburg and Genoa, among other cities, ablaze. But the protesters are not the only ones who are worried about the gulf between north and south. Neyts is convinced that gaining access to development is a much more complex phenomenon than is generally accepted. It is reassuring to believe that the Tobin tax [on speculative capital movements] will stimulate development, but there is more to it. I think that the development debate does not focus enough on political development and political stability. Neyts is a resolute defender of world trade and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Trade alone will not save the world, Neyts said, but in as far as it refers to the free exchange of products and movement of persons, it constitutes an important factor for economic development. International cooperation is slow and does not function optimally, but the alternatives are worse. The WTO is accused of fostering trade anarchy. Neyts understands that developing countries may feel uneasy about the kind of trade negotiations that are conducted at WTO level. There is not one developing country that wants to link social regulations to WTO regulations. Neyts rejects all forms of violence, but understands the protests. There is an immense gulf between the hype surrounding a summit and its result, which is often worded in illegible conclusions. Therefore, it is a positive development that all 'summits' will be held in Brussels as of 2003, Neyts said. Following the closure of the Renault plant in Vilvoorde, we issued a law known as the Renault law. At the time, the brutality with which this closure was implemented was unheard of, but now we have legal instruments to avoid this. According to Neyts, many initiatives to alleviate discontent have recently been taken. The Belgian delegation to the WTO negotiations will include nongovernmental organizations. The WTO texts include passages about the need to heed civilian society and to pay attention to durable development. 