Argentina braces for currency fall BUENOS AIRES - Nostalgia runs deep in Argentina. Even before its faltering economy produced an epic-sized default, and the country was thrust into its worst crisis since democracy was restored in 1983, Argentines were obsessed with their past triumphs. The man whom some economists say is leading the step backward in time is the country's new president, Eduardo Duhalde, Argentina's fifth in two weeks. With his appointment by Congress last Wednesday to finish the two years left in the term vacated by ex-President Fernando de la R?he Peronist Duhalde is now promoting a number of emergency measures that would turn back the clock on liberal economic reforms. On Friday, President Duhalde asked Congress for broad new powers to end the country's decade-old currency regime that pegs the peso to the US dollar, to intervene in the banking system, to institute price controls, and to protect local industry and jobs. But some analysts are concerned that Duhalde will follow it up with a return to the protectionism and failed policies that dominated the country's economy for half of this past century, until ex-President Carlos Menem changed course last decade and ushered in an era of stability. He must think he can defy gravity, because he's pursuing the same crash course that Argentines and the rest of Latin America rejected a decade ago, says Christopher Ecclestone, head of investment boutique Buenos Aires Trust. A weekend poll by Aresco consultancy showed 52 percent of Argentines highly in favor of Duhalde's stated economic plans and another 34 percent giving him medium approval - an indication of public confidence. But at a time when the country is desperate for investment and international aid to prevent an economic crisis from exploding further, it is unclear how far Duhalde could actually turn back the clock even if he wanted to. But few expect the government's plan for reviving the country's moribund economy to elicit much support abroad. Despite widespread fatigue caused by successive austerity drives, such as limiting bank withdrawals to $1,000 per month, the overwhelming majority of Argentines still prefer the stability of the current economic model - despite its many shortcomings - to the disorder of a closed economy. Although he's so far successfully rallied the country's political class behind him, Duhalde, a former vice president to Menem and two-time governor of Buenos Aires province, has been dogged by allegations of corruption throughout his career. 