Soldiers Unite To Defend Camp X-Ray American Marines are bruised by criticism of their treatment of Taliban and al-Qa'eda prisoners, reports Toby Harnden in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba Before dawn, the prison camp echoes to the voice of the muezzin as the Muslim inmates are called to prayer. The detainees recite the Koran together, the first of the day's five prayer sessions. By mid-morning, they are lounging on mats on the concrete floors of their 8ft-square cages, the blistering sun beating on the tin roofs. From seven wooden watchtowers, guards train their weapons on the captured Taliban and al-Qa'eda fighters, who are clad in orange jump suits. Seized by 646 Marines in whaling boats in 1898 during the Spanish-American War, it has been in US hands ever since - Gitmo, for short, or the Pearl of the Caribbean for those soldiers with a sense of humour. Another detainee bit a guard trying to subdue him and, two days ago, another spat on a military policeman. Such incidents have been rare, however, and most of the camp's 158 Muslim fanatics are compliant, the guards say. Like most Marines and MPs making up the 1,200-strong force, Staff Sgt Albrecht is angry at accusations that the detainees have been mistreated. The Marines live in an encampment 100 yards from Camp X-Ray's gates. Some of the detainees had wrinkled faces, a Marine officer noted. When the detainees wanted water, they got water, said Staff Sgt Monte Webster, an MP. The camp interpreters had even devised a set of hand signals if a Taliban leader was caught short and needed to use the portable lavatory. The detainees' toothbrushes are shortened so that they cannot be used as weapons. Sometimes you're afraid for your life because these people are trained to kill you, said Specialist Fabian Rivas. Newspaper coverage of Camp X-Ray in Britain, as relayed by American television and radio, has come close to eroding morale this week. Brig Lehnert accepted that the detainees were living in basic conditions but argued that this would improve once permanent facilities were built. At the camp, Marine engineers saw and hammer away as an interrogation centre and new cages are finished. When the detainees look up at a watchtower, they see the Stars and Stripes painted on the front of the sniper's perch. 