Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away. Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house. Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg. So she said, Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you. And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off. But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK. All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school. That was my dream, to teach school. As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this. Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college. So she said, Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you. So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, Baby, I really want you to go to college. It's always been my dream that my children all go to school. But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money. I sat there and I cried but I tried to be as understanding as possible because I knew my mother struggled really hard to even keep food on the table for us. He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too. If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy. As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, Have you considered being a teacher assistant? But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there. I enjoy my job very much. A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education. At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply. Well I didn't like writing at the time but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper. And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper. I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy. I think that was the last class I took. My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school. Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom. I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence. After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school. I just got to a certain age and I said, No I can't do this anymore, so I never went back. The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down. So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill. Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years. 