Venezuela's Chief Forced to Resign; Civilian Installed CARACAS, Venezuela, April 12 - A transitional government headed by a leading businessman replaced President Hugo Chavez today, hours after military officers forced him to resign. It was a sudden end to the turbulent three-year reign of a mercurial strongman elected on promises to distance his country from the United States while uprooting Venezuela's old social order. Mr. Chavez, 47, a firebrand populist who had said he would remake Venezuela to benefit the poor, was obligated to resign in a meeting with three military officers about 3 a.m. today after large street protests on Thursday in which at least 14 people were killed by gunmen identified as his supporters. We know that the action encouraged by the Chavez government provoked this crisis, said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman. Mr. Carmona, the president of Fedeca-iras, a business association, said early today that Mr. Chavez had presented his resignation. On the streets of this sprawling capital, opponents of the government took to the streets in the early morning hours, honking horns and waving the gold, blue and red of the Venezuelan flag. The interim government quickly moved to undo Mr. Chavez's policies, dissolving the National Assembly controlled by his supporters, firing members of the Supreme Court and changing the country's official name back to the Republic of Venezuela. While pledging to hold presidential elections within 365 days, officials said that Mr. Carmona, who had been a leader in the protest movement against Mr. Chavez, will not be able to run. Mr. Carmona named new ministers, including two active-duty military officers who rebelled against Mr. Chavez on Thursday night. Mr. Chavez had fired Mr. Lameda in February and appointed a left-leaning ally in his place along with five board members close to his government, enraging thousands of office workers at the company. Venezuelan society has reached a consensus to find a way forward, a way that necessitated a transitional government that guarantees the reestablishment of democracy, Mr. Carmona told reporters Mr. Carmona said that the transitional government was being formed with the consensus of civil society and also from the military. Mr. Chavez's daughter, Mar?Gabriela, speaking in an interview on state television in Cuba, said that her father had not resigned. President Vicente Fox of Mexico took a strong stand, saying his country would not recognize Venezuela's new government until elections were held. American officials praised the Venezuelan military and the police for defying Mr. Chavez, as well as television stations and other media outlets that continued to function despite government orders to shut down. Security forces, meanwhile, searched the homes of members of the Bolivarian Circles, neighborhood groups that were formed by Mr. Chavez's government and that were accused by the interim government of responsibility in the shootings. Among the crowd of assailants were people in red berets and T-shirts bearing the name of Mr. Chavez's movement. Among Mr. Carmona's most pressing tasks now will be to assuage concerns in other countries about how Mr. Chavez's reign ended and deal with the polarization between rich and poor that divides this country, analysts familiar with Venezuela said. 