Alister Doyle TIRANA 1997-03-31 Chaotic Albania united in grief on Monday for those who drowned in a refugee-packed ship that sank in a collision with an Italian navy vessel , prompting outrage with Rome which is preparing a multinational force to protect aid deliveries in the lawless country. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the Balkan state and Friday's sinking. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the Balkan state and Friday's sinking. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the Balkan state and Friday's sinking. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the Balkan state and Friday's sinking. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the Balkan state and Friday's sinking. We need to be aware of the sinking to be able to fully understand victims and bodies towards the end of the text.] Albania's flag , red with a two-headed black eagle , flew at half-mast around the nation on a day of mourning for the victims of the collision between the crammed Russian-built harbour patrol vessel and an Italian navy ship. At midday , drivers blared their horns across the capital , sirens wailed and church bells rang as people paused for a minute to grieve for the victims of Albania's worst maritime disaster of modern times. Many of the 34 survivors of the sinking accused the Italian navy of ramming their vessel to stem a flood of refugees after about 13,000 fled across the Adriatic this month. Rome pushed ahead undaunted with preparations for the multilateral force as Italy's navy , which denies it was to blame , searched for more victims. Dutch diplomat Jan de Marchant et d'Ansembourg , the head of a European Union mission planning aid and security , told Reuters advance units were _ not likely before the end of the week. _ D'Ansembourg noted Berisha was firmly in favour of the multinational force and that parliament voted overwhelmingly to accept it on Sunday , two days after the sinking. Demonstrators in Vlore chanted anti-Berisha slogans in the square by a monument marking where Albania declared independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1912. _ We want the Italian government to accept its responsibilities publicly and compensate the victims , _ said Albert Shyti , head of the self-styled salvation committee in Vlore. Comments: this contains speech, but conveys information vital to the topic of the text. The multinational force is also due_to secure the northern port of Durres and Tirana airport for supplies , running short because_of the weeks of unrest , looting and banditry. 