Zimbabwean presidential vote begins Author: ANGUS SHAW HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) - Zimbabweans waited in long lines outside polling stations Saturday, some knitting and playing with their children, while waiting for the chance to vote in elections that present the strongest challenge yet to President Robert Mugabe. Following a campaign wracked by intense violence and intimidation blamed on the ruling party, opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said he was pleased to see so many people voting, believing a strong turnout favored him over the man who has ruled this country since independence in 1980. Mugabe is trying to move the goal posts to disenfranchise people, these people he thinks will vote against him, Tsvangirai said, urging voters in line to be patient. At one polling station on the outskirts of the capital, Harare, between 800 and 1,000 people were standing in line, but only about 100 people had voted in 21/2 hours. The number of polling stations in urban areas, considered opposition strongholds, were cut by half by the government. Inflation is over 110 percent, unemployment at 60 percent, and hundreds of thousands of people are going hungry. Police have canceled scores of opposition rallies and Mugabe has used his presidential powers to restore controversial election laws struck down by the Supreme Court that appear to make it easier to rig the vote. The opposition says scores of its polling agents have been detained or harassed The government refused to accredit most independent Zimbabwean voting monitors, but many of them showed up outside of polling stations anyway. The few pre-election polls reveal voters' fears - with one reporting that 70 percent of people questioned refused to say who they would vote for. The lines were far longer than during parliamentary elections in June 2000, which saw a strong challenge to Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic Front party, though it narrowly won. Some 150 people have died in politically motivated violence over the last two years, many of them black opposition activists believed to have been killed by ruling party militants. The opposition had asked the Supreme Court to overturn Mugabe's decree restoring the controversial election laws, as well as to resolve confusion over voter registration and the location of polling stations and allow the polls to remain open if long lines made it impossible for some to vote. But Friday night an opposition polling agent said she was harassed by ruling party militants, who also sat in front of the polling station chanting slogans Saturday morning, opposition officials said. 