A report about settlement activity in Palestinian territories has confirmed that 36 new settlement sites--settlement enclaves--have been created since Sharon became Prime Minister of Israel less than a year ago. The report also noted that work on bypass roads continued at a rate faster than that of the government of Barak who gave free rein to settlement activities. It also noted that settlers and the occupation authorities pursue a comprehensive destructive policy on a wide scale vis-a-vis citizens' property to consolidate facts and settlement plans drawn up by the occupation government. Taysir Khalid explained that the Palestinian intifadah has raised the settlement issue anew--one of the causes of the intifadah--in unprecedented force as a basic element and condition for reaching any solution. He pointed to the allocations in the Sharon Government's budget for supporting and widening settlements and building new ones, despite the crisis and recession from which Israel's economy suffers. He said: At a time when Israel's economic growth rate declined to 1.5 percent and the budgets of the Ministry of Labor and Welfare and other ministries were cut, Sharon's government maintained its support for settlements and increased it to compensate for the growing exodus from settlements. He stressed the need to concentrate on resisting settlement activity, settlers and their militias, and abstaining from subjecting this file to any discussion as a condition for halting the intensified settlement activities and removing existing settlements. He said: There are two grave violations, the first concerns settlement building and the transfer of settlers to the Palestinian territories on which tens of settlements have been built. The second is Israel's enacting of laws that facilitate expropriating Palestinian land and settlement activity, a matter that is considered among the war crimes. He indicated that settlements have emerged as military bastions and bases for launching attacks against Palestinians during the intifadah. He explained that Palestinian population centers were used as human shields for the protection of settlements, and that about 90 percent of the bombardments to which Palestinian population centers were subjected originated in settlements. 