Parallel lines to the future : Britain is among the front runners as tomorrow '_ s supercomputers take shape , says Greg Wilson By GREG WILSON FROM desk-top micros to the largest mainframes , conventional computers are built around a single processor and a single store of memory. This architecture was adopted because it was simple to build , fitted the theoretical preconceptions of early computer scientists , and seemed to offer the greatest reliability. At a seminar hosted by the Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project last month , researchers and vendors could finally say with confidence that supercomputing in the 1990s and beyond will be done by parallel computers. Faced with these problems , computer scientists began in the mid 1970s to experiment with using many processors in a single machine to work in parallel on a single problem. There are now manufacturers world-wide pursuing variations on this approach , building everything from high-powered graphics work stations for computer-aided design and advertising , like soon-to-merge American firms Ardent and Stellar , through to Teradata , another American company which has sold several hundred of its parallel database machines , to Britain '_ s Meiko Scientific , manufacturer of the Computing Surface. Faced with the loss of their previous high-performance computer in 1987 , the university got backing from the Science and Engineering Research Council and the Department of Trade and Industry to purchase a large Computing Surface to serve both as a research vehicle and a flagship site for Meiko. The Edinburgh Concurrent Supercomputer Project ( ECSP ) , under Professor David Wallace , now has the largest parallel computer in Europe , with 400 processors which can perform 400 million arithmetical calculations a second. What this power has meant to the scientific and industrial users involved in the ECSP was made apparent during the project '_ s second annual seminar last month. Modern science is critically dependent on high-performance computing ; studies of the world '_ s changing climate , structural engineering , and medical imaging simply could not have progressed to their present state without access to the sort of computing power that can only be provided by parallel machines. His group has been involved in parallel computing since the early 1980s ; software produced at CalTech has become a de_facto standard for the various & bquo ; hypercube & equo ; machines manufactured in the United States. He pointed out that every major supercomputer manufacturer , including such giants in the conventional supercomputer market as Cray , were now building multi-processor machines in_order_to stay competitive. Until_now , each parallel computer has been so different that users had to re-write applications every time they changed machines. The emergence of such standards , and the ability to re-use programs written in conventional languages , should bring down the last barriers to wide acceptance of parallel computing. 