The problem is, this large-scale project right in our own backyard could not only potentially cause space debris consisting of bits of rocket, fuel and satellites to fall into Indonesian territory, but will also disrupt flights and shipping. Fortunately shrapnel from the former space station, which measured 33 x 30 x 27 metres and weighed 137 tonnes, burned up as it re-entered the earth's atmosphere somewhere over the Pacific Ocean between Chile and Australia. Therefore, plans to construct a space port should be moved from Christmas Island if Australia is really willing to listen to Indonesia's objections. The main convention is the UN Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects, 28 March 1972, known as the 1972 Liability Convention. The Convention also sets out various claims that can be made by states who have suffered damages as a result of other states' space projects. As the nation most likely to suffer the impact of the Australian Space Port, Indonesia could rely on the simplest article in the Liability Convention, Section 14. This section allows states who have suffered damages to claim compensation through the International Claims Commission, which acts as the representative of the appellant state against the launching state (in this case Australia) or any other international organisation which can be classed as a launching state. Indonesia at the very least needs to sign the UN Convention on Space as well as ratify several other treaties governing national activities in outer space. Indonesia has only adopted one compensation principle, the Absolute Liability principle. A National Space and Flight Agency working paper suggest a high degree of difficulty if Indonesia, as a state that has suffered damage, were to lodge a damages claim. But in conversation with Kompas on Sunday (17 Mar), one of Indonesia's few space law experts, Prof Dr Priyatna Abdurrasyid, expressed a different opinion. It would suffice to submit a claim to the UN Claims Commission and state that the space debris in Indonesia had originated from the Australian space centre. If Australia then denies the claim, we need only demand that Australia produce proof that the space debris did not originate from its space centre activities. Unlike other experts, Priyatna believes that Indonesia should not be too concerned [about the Australian planned space station]. Meaning that rather than challenging and issuing objections to the Australian space project, Indonesia should take advantage of our southern neighbour's space activities. The Space Treaty 1967 obliges launching states to open as widely as possible the opportunity of cooperation with other states in all its activities. The treaty also pledges that the launching of space objects be purely for humanitarian purposes and not for military purposes, Priyatna said. The basic principles of the Space Treaty 1967 oblige Australia as the launching state to open the possibility of humanitarian cooperation in the field of space endeavour. 