Bush Plan Expected to Slow, Not Halt, Gas Emission Rise President Bush is set to announce a plan today calling for voluntary measures to slow but not halt the growth in emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming, White House officials said last night. The climate proposal is Mr. Bush's response to the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 treaty accepted but not yet ratified by all other large industrialized countries, which would require cuts in such emissions by 2010 to well below their 1990 levels. On another emissions issue unrelated to climate, aides said Mr. Bush would call today for mandatory restrictions on three other kinds of pollutants from power plants: mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Last night, administration officials called the voluntary approach on climate the most reasonable path for the time being. A senior administration official did say, however, that if insufficient progress was being made by 2012, there could be a move toward some kind of limits. But environmental groups sharply criticized this kind of yardstick, saying that it merely reflects an existing trend toward using energy more efficiently and adding that as long as the economy grows, this would not result in emissions reductions. One provision of the new climate plan would be to greatly expand a program encouraging businesses to monitor and report their emissions of greenhouse gases. Philip E. Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, a private lobbying group, criticized this approach, saying: The president's global warming proposal appears to be another faith-based initiative: we should have faith that major corporations will line up to volunteer cuts in their carbon pollution. And Myron Ebell, a climate policy expert at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a private group whose free- market views are frequently embraced by industry, criticized the idea from the opposite ideological direction. The proposed plan on nongreenhouse emissions from power plants - mercury, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides - would impose mandatory limits but would allow companies to exceed them by buying credits from others that reduce pollution below required levels. In the face of lobbying from coal companies and utilities, Mr. Bush abandoned a campaign pledge last March to control the four plant emissions together and has shown no signs of reconsidering that idea. 