After coming to power, unilateralism and pragmatism have become Bush's main foreign policy line. Alternate use of and complementary nature of pragmatism and unilateralism constitute the characteristics of the Bush administration's diplomacy. At one time, he said the new US missile defense system would not pose a threat to the international security and would not trigger an arms race; on another occasion, he stated the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States in 1972 was a product of the Cold War era, and thus has lost its binding force. Even after the adoption of the resolution on maintaining and abiding by the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty on 29 November at the 56th United Nations General Assembly, the United States still persisted in carrying out a fifth missile interception test. It was only because of it being deterred by the Chinese Government's firm position and due to the fact that the US crew members were still in China that the United States was compelled to offer an apology. Since coming to power, Bush, proceeding from the US immediate interests, has also adopted the pragmatism and unilateralism position with regard to international treaties. This March, catering to the interests of the US oil and coal barons who have made large political donations to the Republican Party, Bush announced, without prior consultations with its allies, that the United States would not enforce the Kyoto Protocol which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world. Hard on the heels of that decision, the US negotiation representative Marie Chevrier announced in Geneva that the Bush administration would not support the implementation of the Biological Weapons Convention and that the United States strongly objected to the concrete enforcement plan of this convention. The Bush administration either refuses to sign, ratify, or implement international treaties or asks for their revision. After the 11 September attacks on the United States, the international community strongly condemned the terrorist acts and expressed sympathy and support to the American people. Bush said, Either you are with us or you are with the terrorists and any nation that continues to harbor or support terrorism will be regarded by the United States as a hostile regime. Before the 11 September event, the United States kept its distance from Pakistan and imposed sanctions on it. But after declaring a war against terrorism the United States not only drew Pakistan to its side but also provided aid to it. 