Before President Bush visits China, Japanese naval strategy expert Kawamura Sumihiko and missile expert Sato Mamoru were exclusively interviewed by a reporter of this newspaper. If Taiwan becomes a part of China, all of Taiwan's sea areas will be threatened. Under these circumstances, Taiwan and Japan both must recognize clearly the important role of the navy. Anti-submarine combat strength is extremely low, and in particular there are many old style naval aircraft that, compared to Japan, are possibly 30 to 40 years behind. Taiwan should make an all out effort to augment naval combat strength. Although Japan and the United States haven't recognized it, in reality, the United States, Japan and Taiwan currently are already situated in a kind of virtual alliance. I reckon that at the last stage, the United States will provide the Aegis destroyer to Taiwan. It is not possible that the Republican Party will get along with China, Taiwan can again wait for a little while. Question: How should Taiwan respond to China's missile threat? Sato: I gave a speech on this issue in Taiwan. Taiwan has some people who very obviously purposely play up China's use of force to scare Taiwan. In 1996, the Chinese People's Liberation Army indeed fired four missiles near Taiwan, but this was a kind of propaganda war. Before the United States attacked Afghanistan, it first explained the reasons to every nation of the world, and China using missiles to attack Taiwan is certainly not simple. If China only uses common warheads, at most, it would only make a few holes in Taiwan. Question: What is the significance for Taiwan of the United States and Japan jointly researching TMD theater missile defense system technology? I reckon that the probability of war occurring between China and Taiwan is smaller than small. Taiwan announcing independence is not itself a problem, but because Taiwan announcing independence would bring unrest and a domino effect would occur with regard to Tibet and Xinjiang, this is China's greatest fear. There would be no difference between Taiwan announcing independence to the outside world and the current situation. 