The attacks on the World Trade Center Towers and the Pentagon were attacks on the freedoms and values for which the United States and the Western world stand, President Bush declared shortly afterward, and many people in Europe repeated it after him. There is no doubt that a military operation and intensified security measures were imperative after the terrible tragedy of 11 September. Apart from the reasons or justification for such an action, all the combatants' war conduct must be constantly tested against the standards of international humanitarian law; that is, the rules which curb the use of force during a military operation. But the greatest attention is paid to the fate of the civilian population: In principle, the latter can never be the object of a military operation. Hence, humanitarian law requires that in all circumstances a distinction be made between military targets and those not involved in the armed conflict. Many countries are parties to them, but the United States has not ratified these protocols, so that the additional protection they offer is difficult to enforce in a conflict in which US troops are taking part. Such a building enjoys the highest possible protection, and can and should never be the object of an attack, unless it is clearly established that it is being used for military purposes. In other case, too, it seems doubtful that the crucial distinction between military and civilian targets was made systematically. Even if these attacks were directed against a clear military target, the large number of civilian casualties would still never be justifiable, because whoever plans a military attack must take all precautions to prevent such a tragedy. Secretary Rumsfeld's statements (on 20 November 2001) that the United States is not inclined to negotiate surrenders, nor are we in a position, with relatively small numbers of forces on the ground, to accept prisoners, and that my hope is that they will be either killed or taken prisoner (by the Northern Alliance) also suggested that death would be the only way out of the conflict for the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters. It is all the more to be deplored that such statements come from somebody who, as a senior commander, serves as an example to others regarding the observance of rules of humanitarian law. Humanitarian law leaves no doubt that those who fall captive in their opponent's hands are entitled at all times to decent treatment, even if they do not qualify for prisoner of war status. Shortly after its decision to take military action, the Bush administration also decided to provide the press with only sparse information about the course of the operation. Under the protest of international and US human rights organizations but with the approval of large sections of the population, antiterrorism measures are being adopted in great haste. Through that, the United States can detain and try anybody who is not a US citizen and who is suspected of being a member of al-Qa'ida or of being involved in international terrorism in one way or another. On the other hand, US Taliban or al-Qa'ida fighters, such as the recently captured John Walker Lindh, will be tried by ordinary US criminal courts. Presumed war criminals such as Milosevic enjoy all the guarantees of a fair trial, but the Taliban and al-Qa'ida fighters at Guantanamo will get a trial which falls far short of the basic standards of the US Constitution and the treaty on civil and political rights ratified by the United States. A number of other countries have sharpened their laws following 11 September, from increased detention possibilities to stricter legislation on asylum and immigration. The fight against terrorism is undoubtedly justified, but, as with every struggle, it also holds true that the fundamental principles of human rights and humanitarian law must be respected. 