Stephen Weeks TIRANA 1996-04-01 Italy on Tuesday pressed on with preparing a multinational security force to deploy in lawless Albania and tried to ease strained relations by calling for a joint Rome-Tirana inquiry into the sinking of a refugee boat. Also survivors. Also survivors. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for Prodi in s2.] so that no shadow of a doubt remains , _ Prime Minister Romano Prodi told reporters. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for Prodi in s2.] _ I am in favour of a bilateral Italo-Albanian effort to clarify thoroughly the facts. _ Grief and anger throughout Albania cast a shadow over Italy's plan to lead a force of about 2,500 troops or police to protect deliveries of food and medicines in the Balkan state , which has been racked by armed unrest for three months. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's the town] Residents in the town have vowed revenge if Italian troops arrive. Survivors accused the Italian navy of ramming their vessel to stem a flood of refugees after about 13,000 fled across the Adriatic in March. Prodi said that the incident must not be allowed to taint previously close ties and his government has insisted that the tragedy makes the mission ever more urgent to stem a tide of refugees. Rome , with U.N. backing , will lead the force which will secure Tirana airport , the ports of Vlore and Durres and protect relief convoys around the country of 3.4 million people. In Washington , the United States said it would not take part in the multinational force but would consider requests to support it. Much of southern Albania is in rebel hands after violent protests against the collapse of popular savings schemes this year turned into open insurrection. Dutch diplomat Jan de Marchant et d'Ansembourg , the head of a European Union mission planning aid and security for Albania , said advance units were not likely before the end of the week. The state ATA news agency said the town was still gripped by fear , with residents defending the apartment blocks at night. 