Africa Endorses Mugabe Victory, the West Condemns It International reaction to the controversial re-election of Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe to another six year term varied widely. African observers generally approved of his victory, while Western governments denounced it. Observer missions from South Africa, Nigeria, Namibia and the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) respectively, described the poll as legitimate - largely satisfactory and transparent, credible, free and fair. President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya congratulated Mugabe, calling his victory testimony of the confidence and high esteem the people of Zimbabwe hold in you. In sharp contrast to other African observer teams, the forum said the conduct of the elections fell short of regional expectations. That position chimed closely with views expressed by the main Zimbabwean monitoring group, the Zimbabwe Election Support Network which had 400 observers monitoring the poll and have been heavily critical. The SADC parliamentarians' view was also echoed by the Norwegian observer delegation which said, on Tuesday, that the election failed to meet international standards. Mugabe's main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for Democratic Change, has rejected the outcome of the presidential poll. He said the result was illegitimate and a clear case of highway robbery by Mugabe, his government and his party, Zanu-PF. The government has rejected all criticism, describing the election as exemplary, free, fair and peaceful. Bush's secretary of state, Colin Powell, earlier concluded: Mr Mugabe may claim victory, but not democratic legitimacy. If the people of Zimbabwe have a sense that they have been cheated through the election process, it is possible that some could resort to violence, said the foreign minister, Alexander Downer. Facing perhaps a legal challenge from the opposition to his contested electoral victory, Mugabe is becoming increasingly isolated on the international stage. Copyright @ 2002 allAfrica.com. 