ALBANIA : Albanian rebels add Italy to enemies' list. Stephen Weeks VLORE , Albania 1997-03-31 Albanian rebels holding this Adriatic port added Rome to their list of enemies on Monday after a crowded refugee boat intercepted by the Italian navy sank last week. The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The last sentence needs some explanatiion - it doesn't make sense on its own - we need the first sentence to provide information about why people think this way, even though there is no explicit link.] The sudden rush of hatred toward Rome comes just ahead_of the planned deployment of an Italian-led multinational security force in Albania to protect humanitarian relief supplies. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for the multinational security force.] _ We want no Italians in this town. Comments: this in turn has to be included, as it provides the referent for he in the next sentence (again, not important, but provides the referent for another important sentence Link: [Comments: provides referent for he ] _ If we see Italian soldiers in Vlore now , we_ 'll all go crazy. We have a common blood here. _ He was speaking at a rally by some 4,000 people to mourn the dead $-- more than 80 according_to Albania $-- in the boat sinking on Friday. A stolen Albanian patrol boat was packed with more than 100 refugees when it collided with the Italian ship and sank. Residents and the rebel council , which has defied President Sali Berisha for almost two months , hold Rome responsible for the deaths because_of its policy of forcing back refugees. No one would receive them with flowers , _ said Simon Malushi , a former army officer. _ We do_ n't want to kill anyone but the situation here is out_of control and people are crazy with anger at the Italians over what happened , _ he said. Council leader Albert Shyti told the rally Italy must admit responsibility , punish the guilty and compensate families of victims and _ only then will Italians be accepted in our town _. It was a deal between Berisha and Italy to use all means to stop the Albanian exodus , even sinking ships , _ said Dilaver Alia , a member of Vlore council. More than 13,000 Albanians have fled to Italy this month and men at Monday's rally said despite the boat sinking they had no choice but to pay $500 to travel illegally to Italy. _ We have nothing. Link: [Comments: s1 provides the referent for s2's it and the force.] But now Rome and Berisha have become intertwined as two similar evils in Vlore minds. _ Let Berisha keep the Italian assistance. 