Camp X-Ray It's not going to be a country club, said Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week, describing the new military detention camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and nobody ever expected it would be. The 110 al-Qaeda and Taliban prisoners admitted to Gitmo by the end of last week are, said Rumsfeld, the hardest of the hard core, men who had killed dozens and dozens of people. (The caution makes sense; in 2000 Mamdouh Salim, an al-Qaeda operative awaiting trial in New York City for his part in the 1998 embassy bombings, used a comb to stab a prison guard through the eye.) The Pentagon has resisted calling the detainees prisoners of war, preferring the terms unlawful combatants or battlefield detainees. Under the Geneva Convention, those holding true POWs are bound to release them at the end of hostilities; but that is the last thing the U.S. wants to do with men who may be al-Qaeda operatives. Moreover, by convention (though the law seems to be murky here) POWs don't need to tell their captors anything other than their name, rank, serial number and birthday. The Geneva Convention does contemplate that some irregular forces captured in battle need not be considered POWs. Some--the Pentagon won't say how many--were members of the Taliban and presumably thought they were part of the Afghan army. That may be so; unfortunately, as Amnesty International has pointed out, under the Geneva Convention the Pentagon has no business making such a determination. Rumsfeld has laid out four options: a military trial, a trial in U.S. criminal courts, return to their home countries for prosecution, or continued detention while additional intelligence is gathered. But it's hard to find a justification for such detention in the Geneva Convention or anywhere else. Leaving the prisoners indefinitely beyond the reach of any legal regime, said the Economist last week, would put America--pre-eminently a nation of laws--itself outside the law. The prisoners may be in Cuba, but nobody has yet forced them to listen to Fidel Castro's long-winded speeches. 