In discussing the draft regulations to put the Kyoto Protocol into force, Japan openly took issue with the draft regulations only because the contents of the regulations were not in its favor. Japan calculated that it would suffer a tremendous loss, if the draft regulations were ever passed intact and would be adopted as a legal document. However, as was revealed this time, Japan, which was in a position to take the lead to solve the environmental problems, attempted to back away from solving the problems. It is a well-known fact that the Kyoto Protocol was adopted at the Fifth Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Japan in 1997. At the 1997 conference, representatives of many countries of the world supported and welcomed the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol as an epoch-making measure to curb the warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere. Emphasizing the significance of the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol, Japan loudly trumpeted at that time that the adoption of the protocol was produced by the role Japan had played. Nonetheless, Japan, changing its stand this time, opposed the draft regulations to put the Kyoto Protocol into force and even called for liquidation of the draft. According to the Kyoto Protocol, by 2008 - 2012 Japan is supposed to reduce its greenhouse gas emission by six percent from the 1990 level. In the course of calculating the gains and losses of the Kyoto Protocol and trying to figure out what it should do, Japan found a good excuse. In the midst of this situation, a Japanese official visited the United States and received the instruction that Japan should avoid inordinate behavior with respect to the issue of implementing the Kyoto Protocol. Since Japan has no spirit of independence and has always acted on US directions, Japan had continued to put off Diet ratification of the protocol and took such an attitude at the UN session held this time, under the plausible pretext that it would be meaningless to put the Kyoto Protocol into force, if the United States were excluded. What Japan is doing with respect to the issue of putting the Kyoto Protocol into force is tantamount to an act of betrayal against mankind in the effort to protect human lives, health, and the earth's atmosphere. Japan will be unable to escape stronger denunciation and more serious isolation from the world, if it continues to seek only its own profit and create stumbling blocks, and does not do what it is supposed to do to prevent the global warming and seek environmental preservation. 