With this major decision, the European Union is opening the door to the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol for climate protection just in time for the world summit on sustainable development to be held in August 2002 in Johannesburg. It should be remembered that after Bush described the Kyoto Protocol as fundamentally flawed international negotiations on climate protection almost collapsed. The United States, the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases (25 percent of global emissions) withdrew from an international agreement that, for the first time, set binding targets for developed countries for climate protection. However, all the parties repeated with insistence that world climate protection cannot be effective unless the United States takes measures that are comparable to these taken by Europe and Japan. Scientists estimate that the industrialized countries must reduce their emissions to around 70 percent by 2020 to maintain climate change at an acceptable level. The average global temperature will increase by 5.8d C by 2100, sea levels will rise by up to 90 cm over the same period, and there will be an increasing number of hurricanes with ever more serious consequences, while man and nature will have to cope with a shift in climate and rainfall zones the like of which has never been seen before. At our instigation, on 4 March EU environment ministers therefore called on the United States to assume its responsibilities under the framework agreement on climate change, that is to stabilize greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels and strengthen domestic actions to bring them into line with the level of effort accepted by the industrial countries in application of the Kyoto Protocol. If the effects of climate change were not so devastating and our action were to be guided by economic competition, we Europeans could welcome the fact that the United States is not committing itself to an ambitious climate protection program, in so far as the technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy are the technologies of the future. The three liters for 100 kilometers car, high efficiency turbines, and solar panels are export successes and their development is driven by a climate protection policy of growing amplitude. Many studies show that an active policy of climate protection is not in any way contrary to a policy of full employment. We hope that the United States will come to realize that an active climate protection policy is not only necessary for environmental policy but is also an excellent opportunity to modernize industrial society. The door remains wide open for the United States to return to the Kyoto process: The biggest emitter of greenhouse gases cannot be relieved of its responsibilities for global climate protection. 