Rasul told Radio Mindanao Network here that some 1,000 members of the Misuari force have been on standby and are prepared to spring their leader from detention in Sta. Rasul admitted, however, that even if there was a strong desire among Misuari's followers to free him, the plan would fail if the jailed rebel leader went against it. If the government was able to extend amnesty to our Christian brothers, like (former renegade Army officer Gregorio) Gringo Honasan and others, why can't it accord the same privilege to Chairman Misuari? Local Government Assistant Secretary Abraham Iribani called on Saturday for sobriety among Muslim leaders and Moro National Liberation Front commanders amid alleged attempts by certain groups to start a religious war over Misuari's detention. We should remain calm and let the law take its course, Iribani, designated government spokesperson for Misuari's case, said he told a group of Muslim leaders and MNLF commanders in a dialogue in Zamboanga City. Irabini said he explained to them that Misuari was being held for rebellion, and not because he was a Muslim, a member of the Bangsamoro people or an MNLF leader. Iribani also dismissed reports that renegade MNLF commanders were plotting to stage bomb attacks in Mindanao and Metro Manila to protest Misuari's arrest. As this developed, the number of lawyers who will defend Misuari grew to 28, after former Davao City Mayor Benjamin de Guzman and two others agreed to serve as his counsel. Misuari's other lawyers warned yesterday the country's judicial system, more than their client, will be on trial because of the legal nuances surrounding his arrest. The deportation of Misuari by Malaysia also drew flak from opposition legislators who warned that it could trigger a reaction in the government's peace efforts. Didagen Dilangalen said the prosecution of Misuari for rebellion could force the government to revive the cases against other rebel leaders, particularly of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and the National Democratic Front. Aside from the sensitive legal questions, Pimentel said there is a growing impression that Misuari could pose a security threat to the country. 