However, no broad social debate has yet been conducted on the crucial question: How much should each sector or target group contribute to achieving the Belgian Kyoto standard? That is strikingly illustrated by Belgian large-scale industry, which has made great efforts over the past 10 years, over which energy intensity (energy use per unit of final product) has improved considerably. But a very considerable increase in production is expected in Belgium over the next 10 years, so that (even with very efficient processes) overall carbon dioxide emissions will certainly rise. Belgian industry is advocating benchmark covenants because it is afraid that an absolute limit would weaken considerably its competitive position with respect to similar companies in regions where the Kyoto protocol is not ratified. But benchmarking is not sufficient from the viewpoint of economic efficiency (realizing the Kyoto restrictions on emissions at the lowest possible costs for the whole of society). As a result, the costs of additional restrictions on emissions in industry must be compared with those of other sectors, such as the transport sector, households, the service sector, and so forth. Second, benchmark covenants do not guarantee that the external climate costs of energy use (the increased greenhouse effect caused by the burning of fossil fuels) are correctly taken into account in the final products of the sectors concerned. Companies are urged in the proposed covenants to adopt measures which have an economic cost recovery period of less than five years or have an internal rate of return greater than that of a straight-lined obligation. Fourth is the contrast between the benchmark covenants' relative emissions standards and the Belgian Government's absolute restrictions on emissions within the framework of the Kyoto protocol. Since industry does not wish to let itself be pinned down on an absolute emissions ceiling, while the government feels itself committed to an absolute ceiling, industry is foisting the necessary efforts onto other sectors in society through the benchmark covenants. This European proposal assumes absolute restrictions on emissions (companies obtain rights to emit a certain number of tons of carbon dioxide) and is hence irreconcilable at first sight with the Flemish benchmark covenants. Companies could be allocated rights on the basis of an energy efficiency standard, on the condition that they are prepared to accept an absolute emissions ceiling. The great advantage of negotiable emission rights in that the system can lead to a cost-efficient division of effort among all sectors and target groups. By using the benchmark covenants to allocate emission rights initially, the good points of covenants are retained and their drawbacks are eliminated. 