On the agenda of tomorrow's meeting of the Russian government is the question of ratification of the Kyoto Protocol -- a highly important international document that is supposed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. A small circle of experts, in the presence of an even smaller circle of journalists, attempted to define Russia's place in global climatic strategy. The world community became hopeful that it would be possible to solve the problems that brought about the UN Convention on Climate Change (1994). There is a Proposal to Take Shelter Under an Umbrella The first to raise the problem 40 years ago was the Soviet scientist Mikhail Budyko, who saw that the curve on a graph of the air temperature of the earth's surface stratum was inexorably moving toward the upper right-hand corner. Rumor has it that the late author of the greenhouse model told Academician Roald Sagdeyev: I'm a little uneasy when I tell the Americans about my model, because it suggests that Russia's agriculture will gain from global warming, while America's agriculture will lose. And now Andrey Gudkov, an expert at the Center for Strategic Studies, follows Budyko in insisting that Russia, as well as Canada and Alaska, gain, since lands situated in a condition of permafrost will gradually turn into fertile soils for agricultural production. But the expert urged everyone to despair, since control of global warming without Russia is impossible; the country is becoming the owner of the controlling block of shares. In Mr. Gudkov's view, everything is developing well, we can take our time, and we can do nothing at all, since global warming is a threat only to the southern countries. The Obvious is Incredible The speaker's ardor was cooled by the well-known Sergey Kapitsa, who is not inclined to give way to rapture over the advantages promised to Russia. A consensus was arrived at that climate has always changed, but it has never occurred with such speed. For example, Prof. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan maintain that we must not speak of warming, but of global climatic changes; warming is merely one aspect of these changes. What is cited as the reason for them, the scientist continues, is almost always the increase in the greenhouse effect due to a larger concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Models are flawed, including the greenhouse model, and the only thing that is beyond dispute is that warming is underway, and the contribution of human beings to this alarming condition is very large, possible at least 30 percent. Our country has something like a controlling block of shares, since without Russia and the US the Kyoto Protocol will die. Some of the participants took the line that this is an extremely useful for Russia, which has hot air (that is, it is 30 percent short of the permitted level of CO2 emissions), and the country can become the dominant seller in the market; consequently, it has a greater stake than anyone in the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. We will also gain from the fact that compliance by other nations with the terms of the protocol will lead to higher demand for gas, of which we have huge resources. True, this position makes one think of Yemelya's [illusory] happiness and worry about the future development of the country (both technological and economic as a whole). He described the opinion that Russia can gain from perturbations of the climate as false. The Kyoto mechanism is costly, but its value lies in the fact that its implementation has been tied to the market mechanism, that is, life without change has been made uneconomical. Consequently, if our homeland's efforts boil down merely to dealing in hot air, this will not provide an impetus to start up high technologies and will knock Russia out of the group of countries that are striving for rational development, above all out of the European Union. It was aimed at reducing the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and assigns countries quotas on their emissions. As of today, more than 80 nations (all the developed countries and almost all of the CIS countries) have signed the Kyoto Protocol, and almost 40 have ratified it. Russia signed the document three years ago, in March 1999. Russia is third in the world in total emissions -- after the US and China. Russia's emissions are almost twice as great as those of Germany and Japan (in fourth and fifth places). American at first signed the document, but a year ago President Bush announced that he would not impose regulations in his country on the discharge of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. A total of 186 nations are parties to the convention, including Russia, all of the developed countries and all of the CIS countries. The convention was designed to unite efforts to prevent dangerous climate changes and to achieve a stabilization of the content of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a relatively safe level. A decision was adopted at the first conference of convention participants (1995, Berlin) to begin phased actions to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases and to create an appropriate system of ecological-economic relations. Facts According to estimates by the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Energy, Russia's total carbon-dioxide emissions in 2008-2012 will be 20 percent below the 1990 level. This means that Russia will be able to offer the carbon market emission quotas of up to 3 billion tons. Background The Ecological-Economic Meaning of the Kyoto Protocol This is the first international document that makes use of the market mechanism as an approach to solving global ecological problems. In Russia, up to 98 percent of all emissions of the main greenhouse gas -- CO2 -- come from the burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil, gas). So far this potential has been utilized only to a small degree, whereas there are almost no such reserves left in the EU countries and Japan. That is why carrying out a project and reducing emissions in Russia is far cheaper than in most developed countries. The Obligations of Foreign Countries Under the Kyoto Protocol Developed countries and transitional economies must reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by 2008-2012 by at least 5 percent from the recognized baseline year of 1990. The US, Japan and members of the EU must reduce emissions by 7, 6 and 8 percent from the 1990 level. A limitation, rather than reduction, of emissions is specified for several developed countries (New Zealand, Norway), and Australia and Iceland received the right to increase emissions. Russia's Obligations Under the Kyoto Protocol They are relatively mild for our country. This approach is based on the fact that Russia's emissions today are almost 25 percent lower than in 1990, and, according to forecasts, the baseline level will not be reached in the next 10 years. Within the framework of the protocol our country must maintain records of, and monitor, emissions and emission quotas, as well as regulate quotas. Viktor Danilov-Danilyan, doctor of economics, president of the International University of Ecology and Political Science All of Our Activities Are Ruining Nature There are several models today, and they answer the question of why the climate is changing with varying degrees of persuasiveness. The problem is that the present stage of study of small climatic models has scientists studying the life of the models as the life of a real climatic system. Our institute, along with the Institute of Systems Analysis and the Russian Academy of Sciences Computer Center, has begun studying the role of climate change in individual regions of Russia in order to forecast economic development. Because, strange as it may seem, prolonged, stagnant cold spells are also a result of global warming when there is less ventilation of the atmosphere as a whole. 