Harare, March 17 (XINHUA) -- Despite Western pressure on him over his re-election victory, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe was sworn in on Sunday as the country's head of state to serve another six-year term. At the State House, where the ceremony was held, thousands of ZANU-PF supporters in clothing emblazoned with Mugabe's portrait, were singing and dancing to celebrate his victory, with a hope that Mugabe will finally deliver on his promises to give them the land currently owned by the country's white minority. In his inauguration speech shortly after he was sworn in as president, Mugabe vowed to continue with his government's controversial land reform program. He said the program, under which the government was taking over idle farms from white farmers, who own the bulk of Zimbabwe's arable land, to resettle landless blacks, would form the centerpiece of his efforts to revive the economy. In the run-up to the March 9-11 poll, critics had accused the Zimbabwean leader of stirring up the emotive land issue merely to garner support in the country's closest-fought election since independence in 1980. He described his victory in the poll as a stunning blow to imperialism and thanked African countries for supporting Zimbabwe in its stand-off with Western countries over the agrarian reforms. Many African leaders have supported Mugabe's re-election victory in Zimbabwe's crucial election, which they said was transparent, credible, free and fair. In his campaign for re-election, the Zimbabwean leader repeatedly accused Britain and its Western allies of trying to re-assert neocolonial rule in Zimbabwe, and the region, by installing a compliant opposition party in power. However, Mugabe is under strong regional pressure to form a government of national unity, incorporating his closest rival in the poll, to ensure political and economic stability in Zimbabwe. The two, along with Australian Prime Minister John Howard, are members of a Commonwealth panel charged with assessing the election and recommending possible action by the group against Zimbabwe. In his inaugural address, Mugabe extended an olive branch to the opposition to join him in rebuilding the country's economy, which has suffered three years of consecutive decline, but did not say in what role. The MDC party rejected the voting results, claiming the government rigged the poll in favor of incumbent President Mugabe. The ZANU-PF government denied rigging the election, saying Mugabe won on the strength of the appeal of ZANU-PF's land policy. 