Larry Fine NEW YORK 1997-03-31 Major League Baseball , which is dedicating the 1997 campaign to the anniversary of the most profound change in the game , launches a new season Tuesday full of fresh twists and challenges. The World Series champion New York Yankees will play the New York Mets , and the Chicago Cubs will battle the Chicago White Sox this season in games that count as nearly 100 years of tradition dissolves with the advent of interleague play. Nothing could compare with that bold stroke engineered by Dodgers' general manager Branch Rickey , but this season brings radical changes of its own. In interleague play , the designated hitter will be used in American League parks and not in games played on National League ground. East Division teams meet their counterparts in the East , Central plays Central and West gets West in games that represent less than one-tenth of the 162-game schedule. Some of the most powerful teams made dramatic changes in preparation for the new season , while two hopefuls made sweeping moves to climb the ladder. The Cleveland Indians and Atlanta Braves , who two years ago battled in the Series , made a mega-swap rooted in budget strategy as the Tribe sent Kenny Lofton , baseball's best leadoff man , to the Braves for their All-Star outfielder Marquis Grissom and oft-injured slugger David Justice. The most improved National League team appears to be the Florida Marlins , who added White Sox ace Alex Fernandez , Baltimore slugger Bobby Bonilla and Expos outfielder Moises Alou to make life easier for new manager Jim Leyland. In the American League , the Toronto Blue Jays made the biggest splash in the off season by adding former Red Sox ace Roger Clemens to their formidable starting rotation. Toronto also acquired National Leaguers Carlos Garcia ( second base ) , Orlando Merced ( outfield ) and Benito Santiago ( catcher ) and appear poised to contend with the Yankees and Baltimore Orioles in the East. Otherwise the off-season was relatively quiet for the Bombers , who hired away Orioles lefty David Wells after New York lefty Jimmy Key signed with Baltimore. Meanwhile , Chicago's twinning of Belle and sweet-swinging slugger Frank Thomas in the middle of the line-up could deliver a new entry in the record books. 