IN THE YEAR that saw mankind '_ s first wave of planetary exploration reach a glorious climax with Voyager 2's passage of Neptune , it is clear that new space efforts will concentrate on the third planet from the Sun. For_once , the UK is in the good books of the European Space Agency ( ESA ) for our support of the European Remote Sensing ( ERS ) programme , which will use the most complex satellites it has ever attempted to build. & bquo ; It '_ s one of the most important projects we have for the 1990s , & equo ; says Philip Goldsmith , head of Earth observation at the European Space Agency. Whilst other space agencies have equally ambitious plans , they remain as blueprints , or , as one European scientist puts it , & bquo ; pie-in-the-sky-eyes-in-the-sky. & equo ; ERS-1 has five instruments which will scan the Earth at microwave wavelengths to monitor ocean , ice and land resources. Orbiting the Earth at 780 kilometres altitude , ERS-1 will fly over the poles on each orbit and its instruments will cover the whole of the globe during three days. The Active Microwave Instrument radar system , built by Marconi Space Systems , is significant because it can be used over land or ocean : it will return vital information about how the wind interacts with waves. Commercially , the ATSR data will allow fishing vessels to & bquo ; home in & equo ; on the edges of sea currents where fish congregate to feed on nutrients brought up from the ocean floor. But the emphasis for ERS-1 is science , as the ERS programme is ESA '_ s contribution to Woce , the World Ocean Circulation Experiment , an important part of global climate research in the 1990s. Ice coverage limits the exchange of heat between the atmosphere and ocean , effectively & bquo ; insulating & equo ; polar regions from sunlight during summertime. & bquo ; You '_ d be amazed how little we know about the polar regions , & equo ; says Dr Preben Goodmandsen of the Technical University of Denmark. & bquo ; During the wintertime , there '_ s no sunlight. ERS , with its microwave sensors , will give us the best view we '_ ve ever had. & equo ; There are no exact figures for the rates at which ice melts and refreezes , mechanisms which have affected sea level changes. ERS-1 is expected to return the first quantitive data on these processes at the poles. & bquo ; The key to the ERS programme is continuity , & equo ; says Guy Duchossois of ESA headquarters. It '_ s just a matter of finding the money. & equo ; Next week , in Paris , ESA '_ s governing body of national representatives meets to discuss ERS-2 amongst other future plans. 