US human rights report invites scorn Author: CHIDANAND RAJGHATTA - TIMES NEWS NETWORK [ TUESDAY, MARCH 05, 2002 1:21:47 PM ] Washington's kid glove treatment of its so-called allies such as Saudi Arabia and Pakistan came up for withering scrutiny at a briefing to release the 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, an annual administrative exercise mandated by the Congress that many feel has increasingly become a meaningless ritual. The individual country reports is a compendium of alleged human rights violations culled from various sources, mostly the local media. The report on India, for instance, is more than 100 pages long and painstakingly lists incidents of rights violation across the country both by the government and terrorist, militant, and subversive groups. The human rights report exercise was originally linked to US foreign assistance, but increasingly many countries are taking it less seriously in the face of Washington glossing over the record of its so-called allies. While secular and democratic countries such as India merit a litany, a country like Saudi Arabia, one of the least free countries in the world, was turned over in 32 pages. Critics in the media sharply questioned such duplicity at Monday's briefing as Lorne Cramer, US Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labour, struggled to defend American policy. Excerpts from the briefing: Question: Just give us a couple examples what you're doing in Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan, Egypt. Assistant Secretary Craner: I'll throw out a few examples. Q: Lorne, I want to follow up on Saudi Arabia. With the demise of the Taliban, there is arguably no government in the world that has as bad a human rights record as Saudi Arabia does. What is the United States doing to actively promote democracy and human rights with Saudi Arabia? Craner: Well, I would say two things. Craner: I would place Iraq and North Korea and Libya and a couple of other countries into that category. Craner: We are talking to the Saudi government about how to do that, and we are going to encourage others in the Muslim world, in the Arab world, who are trying to make their societies more democratic. And when you say we're talking to the Government of Saudi Arabia, are we talking to them about starting such programs up, or are we just simply mentioning that they have a human rights problem? Craner: Can I talk about tangible advances in particular countries? Q: Is that something we've talked to the Saudis about? Q: (Inaudible) before -- that previous administrations have done before on Saudi Arabia. Q: Because other administrations told us that they've talked to the Saudis about human rights and democracy issues, participation in women's rights and all of it. You talk about what we're doing tangibly in every other country but Saudi Arabia. Craner: Because I don't yet know the effect in Saudi Arabia. 