It is a message that Mr. Bush's aides said in interviews this week that they hoped would force officials of developing countries and foreign investors to work out their problems without relying as much on huge aid packages from the International Monetary Fund and from Washington, which became commonplace after Mexico.When Argentina barreled toward a similar default in recent weeks, it was Mr. Bush who had to make the bailout call - and his decision was to let Argentina suffer the consequences of its own economic mismanagement.The hard line on Argentina, White House and Treasury officials say, was calculated to send the message that under the Bush administration, the United States would be a reluctant financial firefighter and that the markets should not bet on a bailout.Already there is considerable doubt that Argentina will now agree to the kind of hemispheric free-trade agreement that Mr. Bush himself, with Mr. de la R? his side, said last year was a major goal of his administration.But the first time his approach was tested, when Turkey ran into deep trouble last spring, Mr. Bush's national security aides warned that it was no time to abandon a well-located ally whose government seemed willing to take the medicine the International Monetary Fund prescribed.His aides argue that the circumstances were somewhat different: Mexico appeared ready to make reforms but needed time and cash, while Argentina had not heeded repeated warnings that its policies were leading to financial disaster.They pulled the plug, one senior administration official said, "only when it became clear that the collapse was going to happen sooner or later, and there was no use spending billions to get a few more weeks before the inevitable happened."And some argue that both the Clinton and Bush administrations should have acted sooner to steer Argentina away from its doomed efforts to defend a 1-to-1 peg of its peso to the dollar.The critics of Mr. Bush's decision to pull the plug on aid argue that the I.M.F. and the Bush administration were callous for abandoning an ally at a sensitive moment.Both the I.M.F. and the United States, the fund's largest shareholder, have come under some sharp criticism for denying new loans to Argentina after previously approving aid to the country.But Mr. Bush's aides have adopted a policy some call "tough love," meant to reverse the expectation in capitals around the world that if you are big enough, or strategically important, Washington will always find a way to prevent fiscal and political collapse.