In Canada, the opposition parties were highly critical of the Commonwealth, saying it should have suspended Zimbabwe indefinitely until Mr. Mugabe holds free and fair elections."Canada must push for punitive action against Mr. Mugabe and his band of thugs that have brutalized the people of Zimbabwe, which means an indefinite suspension from the Commonwealth, a ban on travel for Mugabe's cronies and to freeze their personal assets."Canada froze future project funding to Zimbabwe last May, suspended export funding and last week banned Zimbabwe officials from visiting, but Mr. Martin said more sanctions should be imposed.Joe Clark, the Conservative leader, said the suspension of Zimbabwe is one step in what should be a series of moves to restore democracy to the southern African nation."What is critical at the moment is to see how we can restore legitimacy on a government that has stolen an election and that government must now deal with national questions of drought and food shortages," Mr. Tsvangirai said.Though Zimbabwe's harshest critics had argued the country should be suspended before the elections, African countries, supported by Mr. Chretien, took a wait-and-see attitude, setting up the three-member committee to make a final determination after the election.Zimbabwe suspended for rigging election SubHead: 'Bad decision,' Mugabe camp says Author: Robert Fife, Ottawa Bureau Chief OTTAWA - The Commonwealth suspended Zimbabwe for a year yesterday and called for new elections after concluding Robert Mugabe had rigged recent presidential elections.Election observers reported thousands of voters were not given the chance to cast ballots in the election, while others were intimidated into voting for Mr. Mugabe's governing ZANU-PF party.Thabo Mbeki, the South African President, has been reluctant to impose sanctions on Zimbabwe and it is believed Olusegun Obasanjo, the Nigerian leader, also had reservations about suspension.Mr. Tsvangirai, who has been charged with treason for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mr. Mugabe, offered to hold talks with the President in an attempt to end two years of violence.Mr. Mugabe's associates said it was a "bad decision."They talked about reconciliation and they invited the government to take some people in opposition to be part of the government," Jean Chretien, the Prime Minister, told the House of Commons yesterday.