Africa, West split over Mugabe's win SubHead: Chretien to await observers' report before acting Author: Jan Cienski with files from Jane Taber in Ottawa HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly split was opening up in the response from black African nations and the West."We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader, who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.Mr. Chretien, who this month headed off a move to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth in advance of the vote, said the election of Mr. Mugabe "does not look very good" but insisted Canada must wait for the results of a Commonwealth report before acting."We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home riding south of Harare.Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe's leader for all its 22 years of independence, won a fifth term in office yesterday, defeating his opponent Morgan Tsvangirai in an election marred by violence, intimidation and the manipulation of electoral laws.The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr. Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.Mr. Tsvangirai was less complimentary, calling the election "the biggest electoral fraud I have ever witnessed in my life.""The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling officers for the able manner in which they conducted the elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.We are not going to go out on to the streets," he said, looking nervously over to where triumphant activists from Mr. Mugabe's Zimbabwe African People's Union - Patriotic Front had ripped up stacks of a pro-opposition newspaper.Mr. Tsvangirai seemed at a loss over what to do next, saying that the leadership of his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) would have to meet to come up with a strategy to counter Mr. Mugabe's victory.Although Mr. Tsvangirai said the people were "seething with anger," Mr. Tsvangirai ruled out open rebellion.Sam Motsuenyane, head of a 50-member observer mission from South Africa, said the result "should be considered legitimate" and blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative oversight."According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000 voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr. Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by the MDC.The win gives the 78-year-old Mr. Mugabe a six-year term in office and was hailed by Patrick Chinamasa, Zimbabwe's Justice Minister, as a "runaway victory.""There is a committee made up of three heads of governments and states who will be meeting within two weeks to analyze the report of the observers and render a decision," he told the Commons yesterday.Zimbabwe's economy has imploded, unemployment is near 60%, inflation is running at 112% a year and many people in this former breadbasket are going hungry.According the Registrar-General's office, Mr. Mugabe received 56% of the 3.1 million votes cast to Mr. Tsvangirai's 41%.