Los Angeles police officers joined the pursuit when King exited to surface streets, running several red lights, a Highway Patrol spokesman, Sgt. Los Angeles Traffic Detective Richard Talkington told the Los Angeles Times that written police reports from officers involved said King ignored several requests to leave the car after he was stopped. King's March 3 beating, captured on videotape, spawned outrage throughout the world and led to criminal charges by the grand jury against four Los Angeles Police Department officers. Police wanted prosecutors to charge King with battery on an officer and resisting arrest, said King's lawyer, Robert Rentzer. Police wanted prosecutors to charge King with battery on an officer and resisting arrest, said King's lawyer, Robert Rentzer. Witnesses back King's version of what happened early Sunday morning in a Los Angeles suburb, and a CHP officer at the scene said he exhorted the police officers to stop the beating, but was told, in effect, to stay out of it, according to a source. Witnesses said that King was already lying on the ground when a police officer shot him with a stun gun, delivering an electrical shock. Rodney Glen King, the victim of the beating, on Wednesday was released from Los Angeles County Jail after prosecutors said police had failed to prove their charges that he resisted arrest after a high-speed chase. By Tuesday night, the horrifying images had been piped into more than 30 million homes: There, the 25-year-old King was lying on the ground, struggling to his hands and knees, then writhing on the ground under a hail of police night sticks and kicks. King, who had been released from jail in December after serving 2 1/2 years on a second-degree robbery conviction, had been pursued to the spot outside Holliday's apartment by CHP and Los Angeles officers in a chase police said reached speeds over 110 mph. By Tuesday night, the horrifying images had been piped into more than 30 million homes: There, the 25-year-old King was lying on the ground, struggling to his hands and knees, then writhing on the ground under a hail of police night sticks and kicks. King, who had been released from jail in December after serving 2 1/2 years on a second-degree robbery conviction, had been pursued to the spot outside Holliday's apartment by CHP and Los Angeles officers in a chase police said reached speeds over 110 mph. Speaking quietly, Allen described King's erratic behavior behind the wheel on a night when the three men had been drinking beer and said tension was heightened when King had trouble with his seat belt as he was complying with police orders to leave his car. When the beating was over, the police officers left him and Helms standing by the side of the road, he said. Police officers, unaware that they had been videotaped by an amateur video buff, said in their reports that King suffered cuts and bruises of a minor nature. Speaking quietly, Allen described King's erratic behavior behind the wheel on a night when the three men had been drinking beer and said tension was heightened when King had trouble with his seat belt as he was complying with police orders to leave his car. 