Another administration official, however, said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues.It was, after all, Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988, when he assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen.Mr. Sununu, said the official, "is really more of a pragmatist."And the suggestion of dispatching him back home to New Hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when Mr. Bush decided to have his campaign there run by former GOP Gov.By the time he and the president agreed on his departure, Mr. Sununu, who made self-confidence a badge of honor, was despondent.Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner, administration officials say, but turned it down.The president had already been searching for a way to ease Mr. Sununu out of his post gracefully.In his letter, Mr. Sununu hailed the "chemistry, friendship, caring and irreverence" he encountered during his tenure in the Oval Office.The announcement of Mr. Sununu's departure came in Meridian, Miss., where the White House distributed photocopies of the handwritten resignation letter.Moreover, Mr. Sununu's ouster is unlikely to result in any major changes in Mr. Bush's economic policies, which have attracted much criticism recently.Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues.In his reply, Mr. Bush said he accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation "with reluctance, regret and a sense of personal loss."But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush, the president apparently decided it had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems, and to increasing disquiet from his political advisers who were concerned about his slippage in public opinion polls.Mr. Sununu, according to associates close to him, planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday, asking him for an expression of 100% support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington.Late last month, in a television interview, Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech his view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates.