u.s. wants kyoto dropped from u.n. meet agenda tadayoshi sakaguchi yomiuri shimbun correspondent the united states, having pulled out of the kyoto protocol, is now objecting to its implementation in 2002 being mentioned as one of the goals for a global environmental agenda being drawn up at the united nations. the united states has demanded that wording on bringing the kyoto protocol on global warming into effect in 2002 be excluded from the implementation documentation of a global environmental agenda being drawn up at the third session of the preparatory meeting of the u.n. conference on environment and development (unced), sources said thursday. the united states has pulled out of the protocol, which obliges developed countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and announced in february a voluntary u.s. plan to slow the growth of global warming gasses. the latest move, a sign that the united states is stiffening in its attitude toward the pact, will likely draw the ire of other countries, including those in the european union as well as japan, which want an early implentation of the kyoto protocol. the u.s. government delegation, however, demanded that these statements in the chairman's paper be reworded to say that countries would tackle climate change in line with the schedule agreed upon at cop7 (the seventh session of cop), which mapped out implementation of the kyoto protocol at an appropriate time. furthermore, concerning assistance to island countries, although the u.s. delegation agreed to establish satellite observation systems, it demanded that wording about the impact of global warming be deleted. the general opinion among other developed countries, however, is that the scientific data is commonly interpreted as linking droughts, floods and rising tides to global warming. === cabinet ok's ratification draft the cabinet endorsed for diet approval a bill for ratification of the kyoto protocol as well as a revision bill on measures to fight global warming. 