taipei 1997-03-31 taiwan conglomerate formosa plastics group said on monday it had promised to drop a china power plant investment if taipei , as expected , denies a permit allowing it to finance the controversial project. _ if the government ultimately decides not to allow the investment , formosa group will respect the government's policy and abandon this investment project and turn it over to overseas business groups , _ formosa said in a statement. taiwan economic minister wang chih-kang confirmed receiving such assurances from formosa chairman wang yung-ching and said taiwan had no intention of allow formosa to finance the plant. _ we can clearly declare that the government will not allow investment in power plants ( in the chinese mainland ) , _ wang chin-kang said on state radio. formosa chairman wang had said on saturday that his group , taiwan's top industrial enterprise , had begun construction of a us$3 billion power station in fujian province in defiance of taiwan's policy and would not take _ no _ for an answer. _ once ( construction ) has started , we can_ not order it stopped , _ wang told reporters. _ if the government disapproves it , we insist to wait and see whether the government policy can be changed. _ on monday , formosa appeared to have changed its line , saying that no formosa unit , affiliate or executive , whether in taiwan or the united states , had put money into the project. central bank governor sheu yuan-dong told lawmakers that an initial central bank inquiry showed formosa had not illegally sent money to china from taiwan , state media reported. the announcements from formosa and the economic ministry capped a day of uncertainty and intense anxiety over the fate of the giant investment , with taiwan stocks tumbling 1.42 percent $-- largely on the strength of a plastics sector selloff. in june 1996 , formosa said it and local fujian authorities would jointly build a 3,600-megawatt plant , easily the biggest taiwan investment in china and the first in the power sector , which taipei had made off limits for taiwan investors. on monday , formosa appealed to taipei not to adopt policies that would jeopardise taiwan's economic growth , hinting but not saying that bigger china investments were essential. _ taiwan should continue to step up efforts at internationalisation and liberalisation in_order_to attain continuous growth , _ the company said. _ economic growth is more important to taiwan than to other countries. _ taiwan forbids direct china investments , obliging firms to route even small investments through hong kong or other third places after obtaining permits from the economic ministry. 