other measures include the use of public money to buy up land for public development projects , such as old-age homes , day-care centres and parks , as_well_as the easing of zoning and other regulations to promote such projects. _ even if they only achieve 60 percent , it_ 's still pretty significant , _ said darrel whitten , a strategist at lehman brothers japan. _ it_ 's not an end-all solution but it_ 's a step in the right direction , _ he said. many of the bad loans were made in the 1980s _ bubble era _ of sky-high stock and land prices to the real estate sector , with property used as collateral. analysts and banking sources said that some areas of the scheme , such as tax reform , needed to be sorted out to attract investors to real estate-backed securities. _ there are key areas which are still sketchy , they have only said that taxes on real-estate trust certificates and special purpose companies are under review , _ said an official at a leading trust bank. analysts also said the amount of public money to be set aside to buy land was not enough to make a huge impact on either land prices or to help bodies which administer bad loans. the ministry of finance said bodies such as the housing loan administration corp , which administers the debts of failed _ jusen _ housing loan companies , would present a list of around 380 billion yen ( $3.06 billion ) worth of property to the government to be considered for public development. _ the situation is already an inferno but the government has only got to the stage of ordering a fire engine , _ said an analyst at a real estate research institute. others also said while securitisation would provide a framework for channelling funds into the land market , not much was going to happen until investors believed prices had bottomed out. but even richard li , whose hong kong's pacific century group bought a tract of prime tokyo land for double its forecast price , says while generally bullish on japan's land market , he does not think prices have hit bottom. _ i think it has not hit the rock bottom , we are in the last 10 percent $... at the most , in my view the last 15 percent , _ he told reuters financial television in an interview last week. 