vancouver 1997-03-30 jere lehtinen had the go-ahead goal and an assist as the dallas stars extended their unbeaten streak to nine games and damaged vancover's playoff chances with a 3-2 victory over the canucks on sunday. former canuck greg adams added an insurance tally in the third period for the stars , who are 7-0-2 since march 1st , their longest unbeaten streak since they went a franchise-record 12 games without a loss in 1981-82. at new jersey , bill guerin and scott stevens scored in a 44-second span of the first period as the new jersey devils coasted to a 5-2 victory over the los angeles kings. guerin scored two of new jersey's four first-period goals , and scott stevens had a goal and two assists. in chicago , ulf dahlen scored his first goal in six weeks with 16:02 left in the third period , giving the chicago blackhawks a 3-2 victory over the buffalo sabres , who lost their fourth straight game. in detroit , steve rucchin scored off a rebound at 3:41 of overtime , and mikhail shtalenkov recorded his second shutout of the season as the mighty ducks of anaheim blanked the red wings , 1-0. _ i thought we had our legs tonight and it surprised me , _ said anaheim coach ron wilson. _ we pressured the puck well , all_over the place , and did a great job getting in front of them and making them take some indirect routes. _ mike vernon finished with 30 saves for detroit , which had its eight-game home unbeaten streak snapped. _ he kept is in the game , _ red wings coach scotty bowman said of his goalie. _ i thought they had better chances than we did. _ in st louis , joe murphy's goal early in the third period put st. louis ahead and grant fuhr made it stand up as the blues improved their playoffs chances with a 3-2 victory over the philadelphia flyers. philadelphia defenceman petr svoboda coughed the puck up in his own zone and murphy sent a wrist shot from the inside edge of the right faceoff circle under sliding goaltender ron hextall with 17:17 remaining to break a 2-2 tie. 