and it_ 's a great time to sell a business because the values are high , _ said bruce nolop , managing director at investment banking boutique wasserstein perella & co. the record $183 billion in total transactions announced in the first quarter eclipsed the previous first-quarter record of $120.6 billion set in 1995 , according_to newark , n.j.-based securities data co. , which tracks merger activity. the banking industry , which had settled down after a frenzy of activity in 1995 and early 1996 , came charging back in early 1997 with $16.5 billion in announced transactions. _ you_ 're likely to see quite a_few more of these mega-transactions as banks seek to establish themselves as one of the four or five regional survivors that we_ 're all expecting to see by the beginning of the next century , _ said oliver sarkozy , director in the financial institutions merger and acquisition department of cs first boston corp. the quarter's largest transaction was the announced $10.6 billion merger between morgan stanley group inc. and dean witter , discover & co. , a deal that is expected to have a ripple effect through the u.s. securities industry. a five-month battle for control of conrail inc. appeared to end when friendly bidder csx corp. raised its offer to $10.3 billion and agreed to negotiate a division of conrail's assets with hostile suitor norfolk southern corp. meanwhile , an unsolicited offer by h.f. ahmanson and co. drove target great western financial corp. into the arms of washington mutual savings bank electronic security giant adt ltd. , which was the target of western resources inc. , announced a plan to merge with tyco international in a $5.6 billion deal. despite the rush of first quarter deals and the seemingly endless merger talk in corporate boardrooms , some wall street veterans say the cycle is likely to turn downward soon. _ my sense is that sometime in mid-year the pace is going to slow down a lot , _ said robert kindler of law firm cravath , swaine & moore , which represents top companies involved in mergers. meanwhile , st jude medical inc. and ventritex inc. revised downward the value of their planned transaction to $365 million from $505 million due_to concerns about ventritex products. 