adam tanner moscow 1996-04-01 a leading russian newspaper on tuesday questioned the kremlin's haste in promoting without public debate a treaty creating a union with neighbouring belarus , reflecting liberal concerns about the pact. _ they are deciding the fate of russia behind the backs of the people , _ liberal daily izvestia said in the lead headline of its tuesday editions. _ was it agreement or conspiracy prepared in the corridors of power ? _ under the treaty , expected to be signed on wednesday , the two ex-soviet states would remain independent but coordinate their foreign , economic and military policies closely. comments: this sentence has to be included to provide the referent for lukashenko in other marked sentences. comments: this sentence has to be included to provide the referent for lukashenko in other marked sentences. russia , a nuclear state of nearly 150 million people , has been working on forming a _ community _ with its less wealthy western neighbour of about 10 million under a deal signed by the two leaders on april 2 last year. _ there will be a union of two states rather then a single state , _ valery serov , russia's deputy prime minister who co-authored the treaty , told a news conference. the potential transformation of russia was rushed so quickly that even yeltsin's allies complained about the lack of debate. _ the government's mistake is that it has rather quickly and secretly worked out the agreement and presented it for ratification , _ sergei belyayev , a leader of the pro-government russia's choice fraction of parliament , told ntv commercial television. _ that_ 's why there emerged more questions than answers. _ even serov's remarks suggested that russians were confused about the most basic issues related to the treaty. _ some people are asking : '_ in what country will we wake up on april 3 ? _' , _ serov said. _ the answer is : in the very same country you went to bed. _ russia's embrace of belarus comes at a time of increasing international isolation for minsk. above_all , liberals fear lukashenko could gain jurisdiction over some decisions affecting russia under a nine-member supreme council which will oversee the russia-belarus union. they said liberals , led by first deputy prime ministers anatoly chubais and boris nemtsov , had tried to prevent yeltsin's approval of the treaty and that divisions had opened in the government. _ if the document needs corrections or more work , it_ 's better to do it without hurrying it , so that mistakes are not made , _ nemtsov told ntv on monday night. 