washington 1997-03-31 selling off federal hydropower plants and power marketing agencies would be very complex and would likely affect electricity prices in some areas , according_to a congressional report released monday. the general accounting office report surveyed all the interests that the government would need to address if it chose to sell the southeastern , southwestern and western area power marketing administrations. however , the report did not weigh the costs and benefits of a sale , a hot issue for lawmakers looking to balance the budget and for companies pushing for open power markets. the report did not specify what the effect would be on rates , saying : _ the potential effects of a divestiture on wholesale and retail electric rates , which in turn would affect regional economies , are other important issues. _ citing advocates for selling the power marketing agencies , the gao said the private sector would be able to operate and maintain the assets more efficiently than the government. but it said that opponents of privatization believed that in the long run the treasury would lose more revenue than it would gain in proceeds from a sale. _ until a specific divestiture plan is presented for evaluation , it will be impossible to quantify how much various groups will be helped and hurt by the privatization of federal hydropower assets , _ the energy department said in a february 18 letter attached to the report. _ it is highly unlikely that a '_ win-win _' situation exists that would make all taxpayers and all power customers better off , _ the department said. if the government decided to privatize the federal assets , it would have to find a way to balance the competing uses of water from federal projects for irrigation , power generation , and protection of fish and wildlife , the gao said. the three power marketing administrations covered in the report supply about 7 percent of the electricity needs of their utility customers , mostly to meet peak demand , at half the rates charged by other utilities , the report said. 