1997-03-31 spyglass inc said monday its move to link devices other than personal computers to the internet is continuing on target , but its return to profitability will likely come later than originally expected. _ we felt '97 and '98 would be years that we would actually invest in the business , and then we believe thereafter we will return to profitability , _ spyglass chief executive doug colbeth said in an interview. spyglass said last december it expected to post a loss in the first two quarters of its fiscal 1997 , which began october 1 , 1996 , before returning to profitability in the second half. although the company has already announced major contracts such as a recent deal signed with xerox corp , the licensing revenues may take longer to come in , spyglass said. comments: would usually omit the company said , but i think it is important to know that the company is claiming this, and not anyone else. _ there is no doubt we have our focus 100 percent on the device market today , _ colbeth said. the company reported a profit of $0.27 a share for fiscal 1996 ended september 30. _ it really feels like things are progressing along like what we said in october , and we do_ n't see any tremendous variance off that , but remember , this is a very new market , _ colbeth said at the spyglass headquarters in naperville , outside of chicago. spyglass has three main business categories $-- connectivity products , infrastructure and professional services $-- and various new products were recently launched. colbeth said spyglass is the leader in embedded technology but keeps a close eye on the rear-view mirror , especially on microsoft corp and cisco systems inc. _ we do believe there will be 10 or 15 companies starting up , and we have tremendous respect for that , _ colbeth said. _ what we focus on more is what is microsoft doing , what is cisco doing , because they want to build the infrastructure as well. _ nonetheless , colbeth said he is convinced companies will continue to connect everything using internet technology , as it is much more cost-effective to maintain information and systems using one format. _ i do_ n't ever worry that 10 years from now we_ 'll look back and there are no devices connected , _ colbeth said. _ they will be connected , and i just want to make sure it_ 's our technology inside and i want to make sure the infrastructure is strong enough for devices. _ ( ( $-- chicago newsdesk , 312-408-8787 ) ) 