william kazer beijing 1997-03-31 the united states and china may not be on the verge of a breakthrough in often testy ties , but both sides can claim gains from visits by u.s. vice president al gore and house speaker newt gingrich , analysts said on monday. the key objective for the two sides was to ensure they moved closer to the goal of an exchange of presidential visits , putting the final seal on efforts to repair damaged relations. _ gore's visit took them one step closer to that goal , _ said a foreign diplomat in beijing. the key objective for the two sides was to ensure they moved closer to the goal of an exchange of presidential visits , putting the final seal on efforts to repair damaged relations. _ gore's visit took them one step closer to that goal , _ said a foreign diplomat in beijing. the key objective for the two sides was to ensure they moved closer to the goal of an exchange of presidential visits , putting the final seal on efforts to repair damaged relations. _ gore's visit took them one step closer to that goal , _ said a foreign diplomat in beijing. while the speaker of the house of representatives had somewhat tougher talk in public for his chinese hosts , pointedly referring to beijing's policies on human rights and taiwan , the content was not unexpected. _ he is a_bit less constrained in what he can say , _ said a chinese journalist who covers foreign affairs. _ china recognises this. _ more importantly for china's leaders , the visit by the key republican and other members of a bipartisan congressional delegation presented an opportunity for beijing to make a personal pitch on major issues such as taiwan. both washington and beijing struggled to ensure that accusations of illegal chinese funding for the democratic party did not overshadow the gore visit. during the gore visit , u.s. aircraft maker boeing nailed down a $685 million jet sale and general motors gained clearance for a long-stalled car venture. _ we may see more such big contracts in the coming months , _ said a diplomat. _ but a $40 billion ( u.s. ) trade deficit is not going to go away overnight. _ 