6 , and the vicissitudes of the political race for the white house. _ every member of that fomc is going to be very careful , _ said preston martin , a former fed vice chairman who is now chairman of homevest financial services inc. in san francisco. _ that means that the odds build up about no action. however , recent economic indicators suggest consumer spending and the labour market were heating up in august , although signs of a slowing manufacturing sector were seen as offsetting the growth signals. _ before the fed can either raise or cut interest rates in an election year , they better have a solid economic justification for doing that , _ said sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. _ without the justifications , they would rather wait. _ some analysts said the latest string of economic indicators painted a blurry economic outlook , meaning the fed will probably stand pat until the picture clears. _ i think they will stand still and await clarification on where the economy is going , _ said lyle gramley , a former fed governor and currently an economist at the mortgage bankers association of america. it may well be until very late this year , possibly even december , before the fed knows for sure whether it needs to move or not , _ gramley added. gramley believes the u.s. economy is fundamentally strong but said _ some tightening will be necessary down the road. _ martin agreed that the fed is likely to remain on hold , _ not just because_of the election , but because this ( current economic scene ) is a central banker nirvana. _ martin cited a positive inflation outlook as one of the main reasons keeping the fed on hold over the next few months. but upcoming employment data could change all that , analysts said. critics initially blasted the fed for failing to raise rates at its july fomc meeting when a report just two days later showed 239,000 new jobs created in june. the dip in payroll growth suddenly made that forecast look brilliant , analysts said. _ so far the fed has done the right thing by keeping its powder dry , _ schlossberg said. _ there is still a risk the fed could fall behind the curve , but right_now it looks like the economic slowdown is happening. _ 