Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe's leader for all its 22 years of independence, won a fifth term in office yesterday, defeating his opponent Morgan Tsvangirai in an election marred by violence, intimidation and the manipulation of electoral laws.Africa, West split over Mugabe's win SubHead: Chretien to await observers' report before acting Author: Jan Cienski with files from Jane Taber in Ottawa HARARE, Zimbabwe - As Robert Mugabe moved to consolidate his victory in elections most observers denounced as rigged, an ugly split was opening up in the response from black African nations and the West.Mr. Chretien, who this month headed off a move to suspend Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth in advance of the vote, said the election of Mr. Mugabe "does not look very good" but insisted Canada must wait for the results of a Commonwealth report before acting."We expected we were going to win this election," admitted Hilda Mafudze, an MDC member of Parliament who had been threatened by Mr. Mugabe's toughs and prevented from campaigning in her home riding south of Harare.According to the government, as few as 42% of Harare's 800,000 voters cast their ballots while the rate of participation in Mr. Mugabe's rural strongholds approached 69%, a figure disputed by the MDC."The ... team wishes to commend the electoral and polling officers for the able manner in which they conducted the elections," said Gertrude Mongella, leader of the OAU observers.The MDC says the disorganization in Harare was planned by Mr. Mugabe in order to disenfranchise Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters.Sam Motsuenyane, head of a 50-member observer mission from South Africa, said the result "should be considered legitimate" and blamed the difficulties faced by some voters on "administrative oversight."Mr. Tsvangirai was less complimentary, calling the election "the biggest electoral fraud I have ever witnessed in my life.""We seek no confrontation with the state," said the MDC leader, who is already facing treason charges for allegedly plotting to assassinate Mr. Mugabe, a charge he says was trumped up.Thousands of voters in Harare were chased away from polling stations on Monday night by police, despite waiting for three chaotic days to cast their ballots.In the working class suburb of Highfield, a strong MDC zone, a middle-aged street vendor just clucked and shook his head when asked whether people would protest Mr. Mugabe's re-election.According the Registrar-General's office, Mr. Mugabe received 56% of the 3.1 million votes cast to Mr. Tsvangirai's 41%.Although Mr. Tsvangirai said the people were "seething with anger," Mr. Tsvangirai ruled out open rebellion.George Bush, the U.S. President led the criticism from the West, saying Washington would not recognize Mr. Mugabe's government.In contrast with the West, Zimbabwe's neighbours, including regional superpower South Africa, found little to object to in the election.Jack Straw, Britain's Foreign Secretary, condemned Mr. Mugabe for waging a "systematic campaign of violence."