Philippines officials earlier had ordered the evacuation of more than 11,000 people from about 20 villages near the volcano, about 60 miles northwest of Manila, after a series of small eruptions began Friday. The Tolentinos and 100 other poor families along the Albacan River in Angeles, a once-bustling city of 280,000 people in the shadow of Mount Pinatubo, lost their homes Saturday in mudslides and floods brought on by the volcano's powerful eruption. As many as 150,000 people fleeing the volcano were said to be crowding into evacuation centers Monday night in Manila, the capital, about 50 miles south of the volcano. Despite the optimism from scientists, however, the exodus of families fleeing the volcano area continued late Monday as buses and trucks caked with gray ash jammed roads leading into Manila. If it does erupt, the deadly hot ash produced by the volcano could sweep across adjoining Clark Air Base, he said. The five USGS scientists are among the few remaining people at Clark Air Base, which was evacuated along with thousands of Filipinos living near the volcano. If it does erupt, the deadly hot ash produced by the volcano could sweep across adjoining Clark Air Base, he said. Scientists doubt it's more than coincidence that the eruption is occurring at the same time as the Mount Unzen volcano in Japan, he said. The five USGS scientists are among the few remaining people at Clark Air Base, which was evacuated along with thousands of Filipinos living near the volcano. Residents of nearby Angeles panicked at the roar of the initial blast, and thousands of people packed roads after a huge gray-greenish mushroom cloud burst from the volcano and turned day to night. At a refugee center in Olongapo, 35 miles southwest of the volcano, survivors told of the sky growing dark, then of hearing a tremendous explosion followed by a rain of ash. At a refugee center in Olongapo, 35 miles southwest of the volcano, survivors told of the sky growing dark, then of hearing a tremendous explosion followed by a rain of ash. Meanwhile, President Corazon Aquino dismissed a British newspaper report that Americans had warned her of possible radioactive contamination if the volcano damages nuclear storage sites at Clark Air Base, abandoned Monday by nearly 15,000 Americans. Friday's eruptions hurled ash over Clark, 10 miles east of the volcano, and Subic, 25 miles southwest, where the Clark personnel had been temporarily housed. Scientists say the eruption of Mount St. Helens, which killed 57 people and caused $1 billion in property damage, triggered a renaissance in volcano research. 