
   The takeover was "the most chaotic, incredible situation
I've been involved in," said regulator Keith Seibold. Mr.
Seibold, a 20-year veteran of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., has been in the first wave of regulators in many a
bank seizure.
   Testifying in Mr. Keating's court challenge to the
takeover, Mr. Seibold said "lots of documents -- loan and
credit files -- were missing" when an FDIC team swept through
Lincoln's offices in Phoenix, Ariz., April 14, 1989. He said
that over the next several days, the FDIC managed to retrieve
the documents from Lincoln officials -- in exchange for
giving the officials some of the art that decorated Lincoln's
offices.
   Federal District Judge Stanley Sporkin seemed incredulous.
"You don't actually mean pictures on the wall?" he asked.
"Yes, your honor, pictures on the wall," Mr. Seibold replied.
   But during a break in the trial, Mr. Keating said the
suggestion that there was any bartering to get documents back
was "ridiculous." He explained that Lincoln's files were
spread among two buildings used by Lincoln and by American
Continental Corp., the parent company.
   In sorting out what belonged where after the takeover,
Lincoln's files were returned to Lincoln's building.
Meanwhile, Mr. Keating asked the regulators to return to him
a painting, which hung in Lincoln's offices and was given to
him by his nephew. Mr. Keating also said that Lincoln was
required to keep all original loan files at its headquarters
in Irvine, Calif.
   Mr. Seibold wouldn't speak to reporters about Mr.
Keating's version of the events.
   A few blocks away on Capitol Hill, Rep. Henry Gonzalez,
who made Mr. Keating something of a celebrity with his
hearings on Lincoln last year, called for the Justice
Department to freeze the assets of Mr. Keating and other
"highflyers who have defrauded savings and loans."
   Mr. Keating said Mr. Gonzalez was ignoring the "truth" of
regulatory iniquity that was evident from the trial. "He
prefers his kangaroo court," Mr. Keating said.

