

Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. was a "con man" who 
relied on lies and political influence -- "juice" -- to fool and bully 
regulators in charge of his ill-fated Irvine-based thrift, California Savings 
and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford told an Assembly committee Wednesday. 


The committee also heard Gov. George Deukmejian's top campaign fund-raiser, Los 
Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian, defend his actions as one of Keating's 
attorneys, hired to represent the Arizona businessman's interests before state 
regulators. Samuelian said he recommended the appointment of two successive 
state corporations commissioners -- both of whom subsequently approved the 
sales of high-risk junk bonds by Lincoln's parent corporation. 


Samuelian, Deukmejian's campaign finance chairman since 1982, also said that he 
represented Keating at several meetings with state regulators. After the 
hearing, Samuelian told reporters that he helped set up meetings between 
Keating and the regulators' boss, Business, Transportation and Housing 
Secretary John K. Geoghegan. 


But it was Crawford's blunt remarks about Keating's tactics and demeanor that 
provided the most provocative testimony Wednesday before the Assembly's Finance 
and Insurance Committee. 


Asked for a simple explanation of why Lincoln Savings failed, prompting a 
federal takeover in April that could cost taxpayers more than $2 billion, 
Crawford said: "If I had to pick one reason, I would have to say that probably 
the owner was a con man. 


"He was a dominant person who believed that he was above the law and 
regulations, that he was powerful and he had the juice and he could win. He 
could fight the regulators, and he did a very good job of it." 


When Keating first took over Lincoln in February, 1984, he told state 
regulators one thing but all along planned to do another, Crawford said. 


"They said they were going to run a traditional savings and loan. They lied to 
us," Crawford said. 


Instead, Crawford said, Keating used Lincoln's citizen deposits and sales of 
high-risk bonds as sources of cash for marginal land acquisitions in Arizona, 
Colorado, Texas and Louisiana. Crawford said that when he took over the 
department in 1985, he found that his predecessor had allowed Keating to keep 
the original records of Lincoln Savings in Phoenix, leaving only incomplete 
copies of documents for California regulators in the Lincoln offices in Irvine. 


Crawford said he ordered Lincoln's files to be brought back to California after 
he discovered Keating had contributed $50,000 to Arizona's attorney general in 
an uncontested race -- a move that persuaded him that any action by California 
regulators would be resisted by their counterparts in Arizona. He also said 
regulators needed the centralized files to help keep up with Keating's 
financial empire, which expanded from 32 corporations in 1984 to 54 entities by 
the end of 1987. 


"That was 54 places to hide the smoking gun," said Crawford, who added: "We 
were never on top of the problems of Lincoln Savings. . . . They could write up 
(the value of) their assets faster than you could write them down." 


He said the task was made even more difficult by the phalanx of Keating 
employees and attorneys, who overwhelmed understaffed regulators. Crawford said 
he tried to keep tabs of Lincoln with only one experienced examiner and two 
trainees. 


"They (Lincoln and American Continental) had a battery of people. They had 48 
CPAs, they had 15 attorneys on staff. I just lately learned they employed 77 
outside law firms," Crawford said. 


Referring to a Home Loan Bank Board memo that said Keating had attempted to 
have him fired, Crawford said he did not know of any such effort but added that 
he, like federal regulators, felt "beat up" by the Arizona businessman. 


'Proof of the Pudding' 


But he insisted that no one from Deukmejian's office tried to influence his 
handling of Lincoln. 


"He had the juice (but) he didn't have it on a direct line from the governor to 
me. I'm still here, and that's proof of the pudding, I think," Crawford said. 


The committee's chairman, Assemblyman Patrick Johnston (D-Stockton), expressed 
concern about allegations that Keating and his associates used political 
connections to influence state regulators. 


Keating was invited to attend the committee hearing but did not respond, 
Johnston said. 


Deukmejian fund-raiser Samuelian, however, said he has never contacted the 
governor on behalf of any client. 


"As far as the governor is concerned, I have religiously for 10 years separated 
my business matters from my (campaign) assistance to the governor," he said. 


Samuelian outlined 1986 and 1987 contributions to Deukmejian's campaign 
committee from Keating's companies, relatives and business associates totaling 
$150,000, plus an additional $100,000 to Republican fund-raising efforts in 
California that Samuelian collected. 


However, he denied ever "lobbying" for Keating or his companies. 


"We were representing a client as a lawyer, not doing any lobbying work," 
Samuelian said. 


After the hearing, Samuelian said he helped set up Keating's meetings in 
February and March, 1988, with Transportation and Housing Secretary Geoghegan, 
a Deukmejian appointee whose agency oversees the state's savings and loan and 
corporations regulators. 


Samuelian also revealed to the committee Wednesday that he had recommended that 
Deukmejian appoint two former law associates, Franklin Tom and Christine W. 
Bender, as corporation commissioners. The governor named Tom first, and then 
Bender succeeded him. 


Both Tom and Bender approved the sale of controversial high-risk bonds issued 
by American Continental and sold through Lincoln's branches. 


After Tom left his post as commissioner, he rejoined Samuelian's law firm and 
represented Keating's position in meetings with Bender, his successor and 
former deputy. 


Wording Deleted 


Also during the hearing, state savings and loan examiner Richard Newsom said 
the state attorney general's office deleted wording in a December, 1988, 
cease-and-desist order against American Continental that could have warned 
investors not to buy the company's high-risk junk bonds. 


Newsom said the wording would have been the "atomic bomb" to end the junk bond 
sales, which continued through early 1989. But, he added, the attorney general 
balked at including the language because his office lacked the expertise to 
defend the state on a court challenge over securities matters. 


However, Newsom's testimony was immediately refuted by both Atty. Gen. John K. 
Van de Kamp and an attorney for the Savings and Loan Department. The attorney, 
Shirley Thayer, said she and others in the department made the decision to drop 
the language, not Van de Kamp. 


In Washington, meanwhile, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President 
Bush had no immediate plans to oust M. Danny Wall, the embattled chairman of 
the office of thrift supervision. 


Wall, who previously headed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is under fire for 
not acting on a recommendation by regional regulators to seize Lincoln in 1987. 
The government did not take control of the thrift until last April, and critics 
contend that the delay greatly increased the eventual cost to taxpayers. 


Asked at a press briefing if the White House planned to fire Wall, Fitzwater 
replied: "No, there's been no consideration of Mr. Wall's tenure. He's serving 
on the (office of thrift supervision) board, and there's been no change." 


Calls for Wall's resignation have increased in recent days. On Wednesday, three 
nonprofit organizations -- the National Taxpayers Union, Public Citizen and 
Citizens Against Government -- sent a letter to Bush urging him to oust Wall. 


